Title: PART I
  Title: FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
  The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. Aflac Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the Company) desire to take advantage of these provisions. This report contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by Company officials in communications with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as the ones listed below or similar words, as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. The Company undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.
The Company cautions readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements:
• difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy, including inflation • defaults and credit downgrades of investments • global fluctuations in interest rates and exposure to significant interest rate risk • concentration of business in Japan • limited availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments • foreign currency fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate • differing interpretations applied to investment valuations • significant valuation judgments in determination of expected credit losses recorded on the Company's investments • decreases in the Company's financial strength or debt ratings • decline in creditworthiness of other financial institutions • the Company's ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates, brokers, employees, and distribution partners • deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions • ability to continue to develop and implement improvements in information technology systems and on successful execution of revenue growth and expense management initiatives • interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems • subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends to the Parent Company • inherent limitations to risk management policies and procedures • operational risks of third-party vendors • tax rates applicable to the Company may change • failure to comply with restrictions on policyholder privacy and information security • extensive regulation and changes in law or regulation by governmental authorities • competitive environment and ability to anticipate and respond to market trends • catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, as a result of climate change, epidemics, pandemics, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, war or other military action, major public health issues, terrorism or other acts of violence, and damage incidental to such events • ability to protect the Aflac brand and the Company's reputation • ability to effectively manage key executive succession • changes in accounting standards • level and outcome of litigation or regulatory inquiries • allegations or determinations of worker misclassification in the United States

Title: ITEM 1. BUSINESS
  Title: OVERVIEW
  Aflac Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the state of Georgia. The Parent Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company) provide financial protection to millions of policyholders and customers in Japan and the United States (U.S.). The Company’s principal business is supplemental health and life insurance products with the goal to provide customers the best value in supplemental insurance products in Japan and the U.S. When a policyholder or insured gets sick or hurt, the Company pays cash benefits fairly and promptly for eligible claims. Throughout its 68-year history, the Company’s supplemental insurance policies have given policyholders the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress.
The Company has continued to develop and expand its product offerings over time. In Japan, the Company is cultivating an innovation-driven culture to meet the rapidly changing customer and societal needs. In the U.S., the Company continues to make broad-based investments in digital enhancements and innovation within the U.S. platform. In recent years, the Company invested in distribution opportunities through acquisitions and partnerships and pivoted to digital sales methods. For information on the reporting segments see the Result of Operations by Segment section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).
The Company is authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, several U.S. territories, and Japan. The Company’s website is: www.aflac.com. Information included on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this filing. The Company makes available free of charge through its website, its annual report on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Title: REVENUE-GENERATING ACTIVITIES
  The Company's strategy for growth in the U.S. and Japan has remained straightforward and consistent for many years. The Company develops relevant supplemental health insurance products offering financial protection from the rising out-of-pocket expenses associated with medical events that are not covered by the insureds' primary coverage. The Company also offers a complement of other voluntary health and life insurance products to fit the needs of its customers. Additionally, the Company aims to obtain more customers by selling where the customer prefers to purchase protection, whether through an agent or broker, a distribution partner or directly from the Company. To help promote its insurance products, the Company’s marketing campaigns feature the Aflac Duck.

Title: LONG-TERM GROWTH STRATEGY
  In 1999, the Company had been running commercials for nearly a decade, but its brand awareness was hovering at about 10%. An innovative marketing campaign with something unique and memorable that would build brand awareness was needed. The Aflac Duck’s first commercial in the U.S., “Park Bench,” aired on January 1, 2000 and taught consumers how to pronounce “Aflac.” The Aflac Duck made his international debut in Japan in 2003. In the time since his U.S. debut, the Aflac Duck has become one of the most familiar advertising icons in the world, appearing in many commercials and countless print ads in both the U.S. and Japan. Today, the Aflac Duck is a helpmate who increases brand knowledge and connection.
The Company's insurance business consists of two reporting segments: Aflac Japan and Aflac U.S. The primary insurance subsidiary in the Aflac Japan segment is Aflac Life Insurance Japan Ltd. (ALIJ). Aflac U.S. includes the insurance subsidiaries American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus (Aflac); Continental American Insurance Company (CAIC), branded as Aflac Group Insurance (AGI); American Family Life Assurance Company of New York (Aflac New York); Tier One Insurance Company (TOIC); and Aflac Benefits Solutions (ABS), which provides a platform for Aflac Dental and Vision in the U.S.
For information on the Company's results of operations and financial information by segment, see Item 7. MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Title: AFLAC JAPAN
  Aflac Japan is the principal contributor to the Parent Company's consolidated earnings and the largest insurer in Japan in terms of cancer and medical (third sector insurance products) policies in force. For information on Aflac Japan's operating results, see the Aflac Japan Segment section of Item 7. MD&A.

Title: Insurance Products
  Aflac Japan's third sector insurance products are supplemental products designed to help consumers pay for medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan's national health insurance system. Changes in Japan's economy and an aging population have put increasing pressure on Japan's national health care system. As a result, more costs have been shifted to Japanese consumers, who in turn have become increasingly interested in insurance products that help them manage those costs. Aflac Japan has responded to this consumer need by enhancing existing products and developing new products. The focus at Aflac Japan remains on maintaining leadership in third sector insurance products that are less interest rate sensitive and have strong and stable margins. At the same time, Aflac Japan complements this core business with similarly profitable first sector protection products as outlined below.

Title: Third Sector Insurance Products
  Title: Cancer
  Title: Cancer Insurance
  Aflac Japan pioneered the cancer insurance market in Japan in 1974, and remains the number one provider of cancer insurance in Japan today. Aflac Japan's cancer insurance products provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of cancer and fixed daily benefits for subsequent hospitalization and outpatient treatments due to cancer, as well as cancer-related surgical and convalescent care benefits. In August 2022, Aflac Japan launched a new cancer insurance product, WINGS, which provides coverage for the latest cancer treatments and support for early detection. Additionally, in January 2023, Aflac Japan further strengthened its products and services by launching Aflac Yorisou Cancer Consultation Support, a new service that provides comprehensive support from the moment a policyholder suspects cancer through treatment and recovery.

Title: Medical and Other Health
  Title: Medical Insurance
  Aflac Japan's medical insurance products provide benefits for hospitalization, surgeries and outpatient treatment of various illnesses, as well as lump sum benefits related to three critical illnesses: cancer, heart attack, and stroke. In September 2023, Aflac Japan launched a new medical insurance product designed to appeal to younger policyholders with basic needs and existing policyholders who desire additional or updated coverage.

Title: Income Support Insurance
  Aflac Japan's Income Support Insurance provides fixed-benefit amounts in the event that a policyholder is unable to work due to significant illness or injury.

Title: Other
  Title: Nursing Care Insurance
  Aflac Japan's Nursing Care Insurance provides coverage for out-of-pocket costs incurred when receiving public nursing care services.

Title: Work Leave Insurance
  Aflac Japan’s Work Leave Insurance offers benefits for relatively short-term hospitalization and home care associated with work leave of less than a year. It is a product that meets the growing need for leave benefits, especially for employees of small and medium-sized companies.

Title: First Sector Insurance Products
  Title: Life
  Title: Protection-Type Life Insurance
  Title: Whole Life
  Aflac Japan launched Prepare Smart Whole-Life Insurance in 2018, a whole life insurance product with low cash surrender value, which offers non-smoking policyholders further discounted premiums, and it provides beneficiaries, typically a designated family member, with a pre-determined benefit payment upon the death of the insured.

Title: GIFT
  GIFT is a term life insurance product that provides a designated family member with a fixed amount of money every month upon a breadwinner’s death or serious disability as family support.

Title: Savings-Type Life Insurance
  Title: WAYS and Child Endowment
  WAYS is an insurance product which has features that allow policyholders to convert a portion of their life insurance to medical, nursing care or fixed annuity benefits at a predetermined age. Aflac Japan's child endowment insurance product offers a death benefit until a child reaches age 18. This product also pays a lump-sum at the time of the child's entry into high school, as well as an educational annuity for each of the four years during his or her college education. In November 2022, Aflac Japan refreshed its WAYS and Child Endowment products and began to actively promote sales of these products after having curtailed sales of both products beginning in 2013.

Title: Distribution Channels
  Title: Traditional Sales Channel
  This distribution channel includes individual agencies, independent corporate agencies and affiliated corporate agencies. Aflac Japan was represented by approximately 7,000 sales agencies at the end of 2023, with approximately 113,000 licensed sales associates employed by those agencies, including individual agencies.

Title: Dai-ichi Life
  Aflac Japan's alliance with Dai-ichi Life was launched in 2001, and approximately 37,000 Dai-ichi Life representatives offer Aflac's cancer products. Dai-ichi Life is included in Aflac Japan's affiliated corporate agencies distribution channel.

Title: Japan Post Group
  Aflac Japan's alliance with Japan Post Group, which is included in Aflac Japan's affiliated corporate agencies distribution channel, was launched in 2008. After the alliance strengthened in 2013, the number of postal outlets of Japan Post Co. Ltd. (Japan Post Co.) selling Aflac Japan's cancer product increased to more than 20,000. Japan Post Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japan Post Insurance) offers Aflac Japan cancer products through its 76 directly managed offices responsible for corporate sales and 623 service departments in charge of individual sales. Additionally, in April 2022, approximately 10,000 employees of Japan Post Co. were transferred to Japan Post Insurance. Japan Post Group has informed Aflac Japan that the transferred employees' responsibilities will include sales of Japan Post Insurance products and Aflac Japan cancer products but will not include sales of other financial products. See the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of Item 7. MD&A for additional information about this alliance.

Title: Daido Life
  In 2013, Aflac Japan and Daido Life Insurance entered into an agreement for Daido to sell Aflac Japan's cancer insurance products specifically to the Hojinkai market, which is an association of small businesses. Currently, Daido also sells Aflac Japan's cancer insurance products to the market in the tax payment association, which is a not-for-profit association for small businesses to support tax related matters. Daido Life is included in Aflac Japan's affiliated corporate agencies distribution channel.

Title: Banks
  Consumers in Japan rely on banks to provide not only traditional bank services, but also as one key source to provide insurance solutions and other services. At December 31, 2023, Aflac Japan had agreements with approximately 90% of the total number of banks in Japan to sell its products.

Title: Competitive Markets
  The Company competes with other insurance carriers through policyholder service, price, product design and sales efforts, as the number of insurance companies offering stand-alone cancer and medical insurance has more than doubled since the deregulation of the Japan market in 2001. However, based on Aflac Japan's size of annualized premiums in force and diversified distribution network, the Company believes it is well-positioned to continue to adapt to increased competition. Furthermore, the Company believes the continued development and maintenance of operating efficiencies will allow Aflac Japan to offer affordable products that appeal to consumers. The Company believes Aflac Japan will remain a leading provider of third sector products such as cancer and medical insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to its experience in the market, well-known brand, low-cost operations, expansive marketing system and product expertise.

Title: Government Regulation
  Title: Financial Services Agency (FSA)
  The financial and business affairs of Aflac Japan are subject to examination by Japan's FSA. Aflac Japan files annual and interim reports and financial statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 fiscal year end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the FSA. Japanese regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). For additional information, see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Two FSA regulations applicable to Aflac Japan are outlined below.

Title: ▪ Privacy and Cybersecurity
  With regard to personal information obtained from policyholders, the insured, or others, Aflac Japan is regulated in Japan by the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI) and guidelines issued by FSA and other governmental authorities.

Title: • FSA Solvency Standard
  The FSA maintains a solvency standard, the solvency margin ratio (SMR), which is used by Japanese regulators to monitor the financial strength of insurance companies. Aflac Japan's SMR is sensitive to interest rate, credit spread and foreign exchange rate changes. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. MD&A for additional information on SMR, including a discussion of measures the Company has taken to mitigate the sensitivity of Aflac Japan's SMR.

Title: Japan Companies Act
  Aflac Japan dividend distributions to the Parent Company are subject to permitted dividend capacity under the Japan Companies Act.

Title: Policyholder Protection
  The Japanese insurance industry has a policyholder protection corporation that provides funds for the policyholders of insolvent insurers. For additional information, see the Policyholder Protection section of Item 7. MD&A.
For additional information regarding Aflac Japan's operations and regulations, see the Aflac Japan Segment subsection of Item 7. MD&A and Notes 2 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Title: AFLAC U.S.
  The Company designs its U.S. insurance products to provide supplemental coverage for people who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage, as Aflac U.S. insurance policies pay benefits regardless of other insurance. Aflac U.S. products are distributed in the individual and group supplemental insurance markets. Aflac's individual policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or affiliation with a group, generally at the same premium. Individual policies are typically guaranteed-renewable for the lifetime of the policyholder (to age 75 for short-term disability policies).

Title: Insurance Products
  Title: Accident
  Title: Accident Insurance
  Aflac U.S. offers accident coverage on both an individual and group basis. These policies pay cash benefits in the event of a covered injury. The accident portion of the policy includes lump-sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries as well as fixed benefits for hospital confinement. Additional benefits are also available for home modifications, wellness and increased benefits for injuries related to participation in an organized sporting activity.

Title: Disability
  Title: Disability Insurance
  Aflac U.S. offers short-term disability benefits on both an individual and group basis and long-term disability benefits on a group basis.

Title: Critical Care
  Title: Cancer Insurance
  Aflac U.S.'s cancer insurance products provide a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of cancer and subsequent benefits for treatment received due to cancer. Aflac U.S. offers cancer insurance on an individual basis.

Title: Critical Illness Insurance
  Aflac U.S. offers coverage for critical illness plans on both an individual and group basis. These policies are designed to pay cash benefits in the event of critical illnesses such as heart attack, stroke or cancer.

Title: Hospital Indemnity
  Title: Hospital Indemnity Insurance
  Aflac U.S. offers hospital indemnity coverage on both an individual and group basis. Hospital indemnity products provide policyholders fixed dollar benefits triggered by hospitalization due to accident or sickness. Indemnity benefits for inpatient and outpatient surgeries, as well as various other diagnostic events, are also available.

Title: Dental and Vision
  Title: Dental and Vision Insurance
  Aflac U.S. offers network dental and vision products on a group basis and fixed-benefit coverage on both an individual and group basis. Aflac Vision Now SM is an individually issued policy which provides fixed benefits for serious eye health conditions and loss of sight as well as coverage for corrective eye materials and exam benefits.

Title: Life
  Title: Life Insurance
  Aflac U.S. offers term- and whole-life policies on both an individual and group basis.

Title: Seasonality
  In recent years, new annualized premium sales are generally higher in the fourth quarter for Aflac U.S. group business due to the timing of open enrollment for many employers. As a result, approximately half of total new annualized premium sales for Aflac U.S. group business are generated in the fourth quarter, which typically results in over one third of total Aflac U.S. total sales being generated in the fourth quarter.

Title: Distribution Channels
  Title: Independent Associates/Career Agents
  The career agent channel in Aflac U.S. focuses on marketing Aflac to the small business market, defined as employers of between three and 99 employees. Sales associates in the U.S. are independent contractors and are paid commissions and other variable compensation based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products.

Title: Brokers
  The broker channel of Aflac U.S. focuses on selling to the mid- and large-case market, which is comprised of employers with 100 or more employees and typically an average size of 1,000 employees or more. Brokers in the U.S. are
independent contractors and are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of insurance products.
In 2023, the Aflac U.S. sales force included an average of approximately 6,200 U.S. agents, including brokers, who were actively producing business on a weekly basis. For additional information, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of Item 7. MD&A.

Title: Consumer Markets
  While Aflac U.S. primarily markets its insurance products at the worksite, Aflac U.S. is also expanding its distribution strategy to directly reach consumers outside of the traditional worksite through digital lead generation.

Title: Competitive Markets
  Aflac U.S. competes against several supplemental insurance carriers on a national and regional basis. Aflac U.S. believes its policies, premium rates, platforms, value-added services and sales commissions are competitive by product type. Moreover, Aflac U.S. believes that its products are distinct from competitive offerings given its product focus (including features, benefits and claims service model), distribution capabilities and brand awareness.
Since Aflac products provide an additional level of financial protection for policyholders, the Company believes the increased financial exposure some employees may face creates a favorable opportunity for Aflac U.S. products. However, given the profitability erosion some major medical carriers are facing in their core lines of business, the Company has seen a more competitive landscape as these carriers seek entry into Aflac's supplemental product segments and leverage their core benefit offerings by bundling and discounting products in order to gain market share.

Title: Government Regulation
  Title: State Insurance Regulation
  The Parent Company and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries, Aflac, CAIC, TOIC (Nebraska-domiciled insurance companies), Aflac New York (a New York-domiciled insurance company) and ABS (a licensed third-party administrator in most U.S. jurisdictions and a pre-paid limited health service organization in Florida) are subject to state regulations in the U.S. as an insurance holding company system. Such regulations generally provide that certain transactions between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable. In addition, transfers of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from insurance subsidiaries and certain transactions between companies within the system, including management fees, loans and advances are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities. These laws generally require, among other things, the insurance holding company and each insurance company directly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance departments of their respective domiciliary states and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system.
Like all U.S. insurance companies, Aflac, CAIC, TOIC and Aflac New York are subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. In general, the insurance laws of the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to, among other things:
• granting and revoking licenses to transact business • regulating trade and claims practices • licensing of insurance agents and brokers • approval of policy forms and premium rates • standards of solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss ratio requirements • capital requirements • limitations on dividends to shareholders • the nature of and limitations on investments • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders • filing of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities • periodic examinations of the market conduct, financial, and other affairs of insurance companies
The insurance laws of Nebraska that govern the Company's activities provide that the acquisition or change of “control” of a domestic insurer or of any person that controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the Nebraska Department of Insurance (NDOI). A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domestic insurance company or of any person controlling a domestic insurance company (in the case of Aflac, CAIC and TOIC, the Parent Company) must generally file with the NDOI an application for change of control containing certain information required by statute and published regulations and provide a copy to the Company. In Nebraska, control is generally
presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, acquires 10% or more of an insurance company or of any other person or entity controlling the insurance company. The 10% presumption is not conclusive and control may be found to exist at less than 10%. Similar laws apply in New York, the domiciliary jurisdiction of Aflac's New York insurance subsidiary.
State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy filings and market conduct of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). In 2024, the NDOI and the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYSDFS) will commence full-scope, risk-focused financial examinations on their respective state domiciled insurance entities. The examinations will cover the reporting period January 1, 2020 – December 31, 2023. In 2023, the NYSDFS commenced a routine market conduct examination on Aflac New York covering the five-year period ended on December 31, 2022 that is currently ongoing.

Title: NAIC Risk-Based Capital
  The NAIC continually reviews regulatory matters, such as risk-based capital (RBC) modernization, group capital calculations and liquidity risk assessment. The NAIC uses an RBC formula relating to insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk to facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mix of risk inherent in the insurer's operations. The formulas for determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company's regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control level RBC as defined by the NAIC. Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control, and mandatory control. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. MD&A for additional information on RBC.

Title: Guaranty Association and Similar Arrangements
  Under state insurance guaranty association laws and similar laws in international jurisdictions, the Company is subject to assessments, based on the share of business the Company writes in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. In the U.S., some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. The Company's policy is to accrue assessments when the entity for which the insolvency relates has met its state of domicile's statutory definition of insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable and the related premium upon which the assessment is based is written. In most states, the definition is met with a declaration of financial insolvency by a court of competent jurisdiction.

Title: Federal Regulation
  Federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including health care reform legislation, financial services reform legislation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation, can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. Certain federal regulations applicable to Aflac U.S. are outlined below.

Title: • Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Heath Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the ACA), federal health care reform legislation, gave the U.S. federal government direct regulatory authority over the business of health insurance. The ACA, as enacted, does not require material changes in the design of the Company's insurance products. However, indirect consequences of, or changes to, the legislation and regulations could present challenges that could potentially have an impact on the Company's sales model, financial condition and results of operations. Certain provisions of the ACA have been and may continue to be subject to challenge through litigation, the ultimate effects of which on the ACA are uncertain. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for the risk factor entitled, "Extensive regulation and changes in legislation can impact profitability and growth" for additional information.

Title: • Dodd-Frank Act
  Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank) and regulations issued thereunder, in particular rules to require central clearing for certain types of derivatives, may have an impact on the Company's derivative activity, including activity on behalf of Aflac Japan.
The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) under the U.S. Department of the Treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance.

Title: • Privacy and Cybersecurity
  In the absence of a comprehensive federal privacy law, states are making a push towards privacy legislation. Personally identifiable information is used in support of many of the Company's business processes. For many years, the standard for protection and treatment of that data was benchmarked by privacy and security provisions of the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) and in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). As consumers have grown more concerned about the protection of their data, as well as how their data is used by an organization, many jurisdictions within and outside of the U.S. have created legislation and issued regulations that apply or may in the future apply to aspects of Aflac U.S. operations and allow consumers the right to access, correct, delete and the right to opt out of sales or use of their data. Examples of these types of legislation include the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the UK Data Protection Act of 2018 (UK DPA) and most recently, effective in 2023, the Connecticut Data Privacy Act (CDPA), the Utah Consumer Privacy Act (UCPA), the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VCDPA) and the Colorado Privacy Act (CPA).
Cybersecurity continues to be an area of evolving focus for legislation and regulatory activity. In addition to the information required by Item 1C. Cybersecurity of this report, industry regulators as well as the federal government have updated existing standards and increased their focus on enforcement. For example, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) issued guidelines on managing risks associated with the use of artificial intelligence, the NAIC adopted a Model Bulletin on the Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems by Insurers and the Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) published additional security guidelines related to ransomware.
The Company has a cross-functional team that tracks and monitors new and emerging legislation and regulations to ensure privacy and cybersecurity programs are evaluated and comply with regulatory requirements. This includes a robust third-party risk management and assessment program. Over the last several years, processes have developed to support the data subject request process required by CCPA, privacy impact assessments have been implemented as required by CPRA and a dedicated privacy and security center has been added to the Company website to provide consumers with information about the use of and protection of their data.

Title: • Tri-Agency Proposed Rule
  In July 2023, the U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Department of the Treasury and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued a proposed joint rule that, as written, would impose significant limitations on the structure of benefits for hospital indemnity and other fixed indemnity plans, including those sold by Aflac U.S. The current benefit structure for these products allows the Company to vary the amount of benefits by the services or items received, severity of illness or injury, or any other characteristics particular to a course of treatment. If finalized in its current form, the proposed rule would eliminate Aflac U.S.’s ability to vary the amount of benefits provided by these products. The timing and substance of the final regulations, if any, is not known, and any such final rule could be the subject of litigation.
For further information concerning Aflac U.S. operations, see the Aflac U.S. Segment subsection of Item 7. MD&A and Notes 2 and 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Title: CORPORATE AND OTHER
  The Company's other operations include the Parent Company, Aflac Global Ventures LLC and its subsidiaries, asset management subsidiaries, results of reinsurance activities including Aflac Re Bermuda Ltd. (Aflac Re), and a printing subsidiary.
Investments of Aflac U.S., as well as certain sub-advised assets of Aflac Japan, are managed by the Company’s U.S. asset management subsidiary, Aflac Asset Management LLC (AAM), and investments of Aflac Japan are managed pursuant to an investment advisory agreement between Aflac Japan and the Company's asset management subsidiary in Japan, Aflac Asset Management Japan Ltd. (AAMJ). AAMJ is licensed as a discretionary asset manager under the Japan Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and is subject to rules of the Japan Investment Advisors Association, a self-
regulatory organization with mandatory membership for Japan investment managers. AAM is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. AAM and AAMJ are reported in Corporate and other; however, the assets that they manage are reported in the respective Aflac Japan and Aflac U.S. segments.
In 2022, the Company established Aflac Re, a Bermuda domiciled insurer that reinsures certain policies issued by ALIJ. Aflac Re is subject to regulation in Bermuda, where the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA) has broad administrative powers relating to granting and revoking licenses to transact reinsurance business, approval of specific reinsurance transactions, capital requirements and solvency standards, limitations on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on investments, and the filing of financial statements in accordance with prescribed or permitted accounting practices.
In 2020, the Company purchased newly issued common stock of Trupanion, Inc., a provider of medical insurance for pets in the United States and Canada, resulting in the Company owning approximately 9% of the outstanding common stock of Trupanion, Inc. The shares were registered for resale and, pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, the Company agreed that it would not transfer its shares of Trupanion, Inc. common stock during a restricted period that ended on November 13, 2023. The Company also entered into an alliance agreement with Trupanion, Inc. to sell pet insurance in worksites in the U.S., subject to certain exceptions. In December 2023, the Company and Trupanion announced their decision not to pursue joint development of pet insurance in Japan.
For additional information on the Company's other operations, see the Corporate and other subsection of Item 7. MD&A and Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Title: HUMAN CAPITAL
  The Company’s overarching human capital philosophy is, “If you take care of your employees, your employees will take care of the business.” The Company's compensation and benefit expense totaled approximately $1.9 billion in both 2023 and 2022. The Company believes its employee relations are generally satisfactory.
The following table details the number of full-time employees as of December 31.

Title: Talent
  The Company uses internal and external resources to attract, retain and develop talent across a variety of backgrounds and demographics.
Aflac Japan seeks diverse talent through annual recruitment of new university graduates as well as mid-career recruitment of those with specialty skills or expertise. For its employees, Aflac Japan implements standard and unified training and development programs focusing on a range of business skills. For example, Aflac Japan’s Leadership Program allows select managers to participate in a comprehensive training program to learn about innovation and the global business environment. Aflac Japan implemented a human capital management system, beginning in January 2021 with managers and more senior leadership positions and in January 2022 with all other employees. Under the system, employees have access to descriptions and necessary skills for all job positions across the Company and are able to more proactively design their careers.
Aflac U.S. recruiting efforts include partnerships with colleges and universities, including historically black colleges and universities, and civic organizations to attract diverse talent. Aflac U.S. also offers a variety of internships, co-operative opportunities and transitional programs to allow emerging talent to develop. Educational opportunities are available for self-development and growth to help employees further enhance their technical and professional skills.

Title: Compensation
  The Aflac Japan and Aflac U.S. Human Resources divisions operate as centralized internal compensation functions to provide oversight and input to the respective management teams with the objective of providing compensation that is
consistent with job scope, duties and responsibilities. The compensation function evaluates new-hire job offers, promotions and compensation adjustments with the goal of consistent and equitable compensation. Defined salary structures are reviewed regularly and updated utilizing market data. Job levels and associated compensation are determined based on annually updated market data, job scope, duties and responsibilities. Employee performance reviews are conducted annually and are factored into employee bonuses and salaries.

Title: Health and Wellness
  In 2023, Aflac Japan was certified, for the sixth consecutive year, as one of the top 500 Leading Companies in Health and Productivity Management under the Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program with Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. This certification is awarded for best practices in employee health management, strategically focused work style and development of a socially appreciative work environment. Aflac Japan's current certification was in recognition of regular monitoring of key health indicators by members of Aflac Japan's management, strategic implementation of health management initiatives and disclosure of information, and efforts to promote and maintain employee health.
Aflac U.S. Health and Wellness, a training and service program works to enhance organizational health, encourage healthy lifestyles among all U.S. employees, provide diverse wellness programs to meet a wide range of personal health needs, recognize employees for participating in healthier lifestyles activities, and support a positive corporate culture that is focused on celebrating and improving the quality of life for all U.S. employees.

Title: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
  The Company’s corporate culture reflects its commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion at all levels of the Company. For example:
• As of December 31, 2023, women account for 54% of Aflac Japan employees and 33% of those in leadership roles. Women also held 20% of senior management roles. Aflac Japan's goal is to further increase the percentage of women in line manager positions by 2025.
• As of December 31, 2023, 49% of Aflac U.S. and the Parent Company employees located in the U.S. were people of color and 66% were women. Women also occupied 51% of leadership roles located in the U.S. and 37% of senior management roles. In 2023, 57% of new hires located in the U.S. were people of color and 68% were women.
• Established in 2009, Aflac Heartful Services Co., Ltd. (Aflac Heartful Services), a subsidiary of Aflac Japan, promotes the hiring of employees with disabilities. Aflac Heartful Services has established a barrier-free work environment and provides, among other things, specialized training, specially-trained supervisors and development opportunities to support those with disabilities. Of Aflac Heartful Services’ 152 employees as of December 31, 2023, 120 have a disability. Aflac Heartful Services supports these employees with the assistance of advisors for long-term career support.
• Both Aflac Japan and Aflac U.S. have created diversity councils that include employees from various levels that meet regularly to discuss activities and initiatives. The councils are designed to create avenues in which employees can communicate and appreciate one another’s cultural differences.
• Women and/or people of color comprise approximately 64% of the Parent Company’s board of directors.

Title: Employee Engagement and Culture
  The Company strives to have an engaged employee culture by developing programs including career development support and programs emphasizing work life balance. Each year, Aflac Japan conducts a human capital engagement survey in which all employees answer questions about the company and their organization to measure engagement across the company and detect organizational issues. The results of the survey are reported to Aflac Japan's Human Capital Management Committee to identify issues, formulate enhancement/improvement measures and implement them. Aflac U.S. provides an employee engagement survey every other year to employees to gather their views on company culture and satisfaction, and works with its leadership to monitor continuous improvements and enhance the employee experience.

Title: Information about the Company's Executive Officers
  Title: (1) Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least the last five years. Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of directors and serves until his or her successor is chosen and qualified, or until his or her death, resignation or removal.
  Title: ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
  The Company faces a wide range of risks, and its continued success depends on its ability to identify, prioritize, and appropriately manage enterprise risk exposures. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. These risks and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those in this document or made by the Company elsewhere, such as in earnings release webcasts, investor conference presentations or press releases. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, there could be a material impact on the Company.

Title: Investment and Markets Risk Factors
  Title: Difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy could have a material adverse effect on the Company's investments, capital position, revenue, profitability, and liquidity and harm the Company's business.
  The Company's results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the global economy generally, including in its two primary operating markets of the U.S. and Japan. High rates of inflation globally from 2022 were reduced due to monetary tightening in many countries and normalization of certain trends after COVID-19, including supply chain recovery and phasing out of extraordinary fiscal support. Although economies have proved resilient in the face of interest rate increases, tighter financial conditions for a prolonged period may result in continued weakening of economic conditions. Japan remains an exception to the major central bank tightening trend. Armed conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, as well as political polarization in the U.S., exacerbate uncertainty. Geopolitical events have contributed to volatility in energy and other commodity prices. The failure of several large U.S. banks and UBS's acquisition of Credit Suisse in early 2023 did not trigger a wider financial crisis at the time, but sustained high interest rates and economic decline could continue pressuring the financial health of other financial institutions. Higher interest rates and softer economic conditions could impact the creditworthiness and value of the Company's existing investment portfolio, influence opportunities for new investments and have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and financial positions.
The Company's investments are vulnerable to adverse market developments such as asset price volatility, lack of market liquidity, credit rating downgrades, payment defaults, asset restructurings, increased losses, and other risks. The Company has evaluated its holdings and identified investments in areas such as commercial real estate and highly leveraged companies as the most exposed to rising interest rates and an economic downturn. These investments are experiencing and may continue to experience higher credit losses, credit rating downgrades and/or defaults and a deterioration in the value of collateral in the case of secured investments. The Company has examined in each case whether a reduction in size of the holding is appropriate. The Company has identified assets impacted or expected to be impacted by rising interest rates and economic contraction, other investments not identified to date may also be impacted. The availability of new investments in certain private market asset classes has been and may continue to be limited. While interest rates have increased in the U.S. and other regions, interest rates in Japan remain low, and the difference between U.S. and Japan rates has increased. The Company may need to adjust its investment strategy and/or be forced to liquidate investments to pay claims. In addition, the increase in the difference between interest rates in the U.S. and Japan contributed to a weakening of the yen over 2023, which had the effect of suppressing the Company's current period results in relation to the comparable prior period. The increase in the difference between U.S. dollar and yen interest rates also contributes to increasing costs of hedging currency risk of U.S. dollar-denominated investments held by Aflac Japan. The Company is not able to predict the ultimate impact of inflation, interest rate increases, interest rate differences and other changing market conditions on the Company’s investments and hedging programs. See the risk factor below entitled, “The Company is exposed to significant interest rate risk, which may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity” for additional information. See the Investments and Results of Operations by Segment sections of Item 7. MD&A, for additional information.
As the Company holds a significant amount of fixed maturity securities issued by borrowers located in many different parts of the world, its financial results are directly influenced by global financial markets. Recent weakness in global capital markets could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, including its capital position and overall profitability. Market volatility and recessionary pressures could result in significant realized or unrealized losses due to severe price declines driven by increases in interest rates or credit spreads, defaults in payment of principal or interest, or credit rating downgrades.
Japan is the largest market for the Company's insurance products, and the Company owns substantial holdings in Japan Government Bonds (JGBs). Government actions to stimulate the economy affect the value of the Company's existing
holdings, its reinvestment rate on new investments in JGBs or other yen-denominated assets, and consumer behavior relative to the Company's suite of insurance products. The additional government debt from fiscal stimulus actions could adversely impact the Japan sovereign credit profile, which could in turn lead to volatility in Japanese capital and currency markets.
Should investors become concerned with any of the Company's investment holdings, including the concentration in JGBs, its access to market sources of funding could be negatively impacted. It is possible that lenders or debt investors may also become concerned if the Company incurs large investment losses or if the level of the Company's business activity decreases due to a market downturn or there are further adverse economic trends in the U.S. or Japan, specifically, or generally in developed markets.
The Company needs liquidity to pay its operating expenses, dividends on its common stock, interest on its debt, and liabilities. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. MD&A, for additional information. In the event the Company's current resources do not meet its needs, the Company may need to seek additional financing. The Company's access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit within the financial services industry and its credit rating. See the risk factor below entitled, “Any decrease in the Company's financial strength or debt ratings may have an adverse effect on its competitive position and access to liquidity and capital” for additional information.
Broad economic factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation, as well as ongoing central bank responses to these factors, all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of the Company's business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. This adverse effect could be particularly significant for companies such as Aflac that distribute supplemental, discretionary insurance products primarily through the worksite in the event that economic conditions result in a decrease in the number of new hires and total employees. Adverse changes in the economy could potentially lead the Company's customers to be less inclined to purchase supplemental insurance coverage or to decide to cancel or modify existing insurance coverage. Further, Aflac U.S. may experience higher rates of policy lapses during periods of increased job turnover and workforce mobility within the U.S. economy. The above factors could adversely affect the Company's net earned premiums, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is unable to predict the course of the global financial markets or the recurrence, duration or severity of disruptions in such markets.

Title: Defaults, downgrades, widening credit spreads or other events impairing the value of the fixed maturity securities and loan receivables in the Company's investment portfolio may reduce the Company's earnings and capital position.
  The Company is subject to the risk that the issuers and/or guarantors of fixed maturity securities and loan receivables the Company owns may default on principal or interest. A significant portion of the Company's portfolio represents an unsecured obligation of the issuer, including some that may be subordinated to other debt in the issuer’s capital structure. In these cases, many factors can influence the overall creditworthiness of the issuer and ultimately its ability to service and repay the Company's holdings. This can include changes in the global economy, the issuer's assets, strategy, or management, shifts in the dynamics of the industries in which the issuer competes, the issuer's access to additional funding, and the overall health of the credit markets. Factors unique to the Company's securities including contractual protections such as financial covenants or relative position in the issuer's capital structure also influence the value of the Company's holdings. In addition, for investments representing secured obligations of an issuer, such as mortgage loan receivables, the underlying value of the collateral may not be sufficient to fully recover the amount of principal and interest owed to the Company if a default occurs.
Most of the Company's investments carry a rating by one or more of the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs or rating agencies). Any change in the rating agencies' approach to evaluating credit and assigning an opinion could negatively impact the fair value of the Company's portfolio. Any expected or sustained credit deterioration of the Company's investments will negatively impact the Company's net income and capital position through credit impairment and other credit related losses. Credit related losses that are not temporary in nature would also affect the Company's solvency ratios in the U.S., Japan and Bermuda. Aflac Japan has certain regulatory accounting requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by credit-related losses, which may be different from U.S. GAAP and statutory requirements. These impairment losses could negatively impact Aflac Japan's earnings, and the corresponding dividends and capital deployment. The Company is also subject to the risk that any collateral providing credit enhancement to the Company's investments could deteriorate.
The Company is also exposed to the general movement in credit market spreads. A widening of credit spreads could reduce the value of the Company's existing portfolio, create unrealized losses on its investment portfolio, and reduce the Company's adjusted capital position and/or the dividend capacity of the Company's insurance subsidiaries. A tightening of credit spreads could reduce the net investment income available to the Company on new credit investments. Increased market volatility also makes it difficult to value certain of the Company's investment holdings. For additional information, see the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Item 7. MD&A, and the Credit Risk subsection of Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

Title: The Company is exposed to significant interest rate risk, which may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
  The Company has substantial investment portfolios that support its policy liabilities. Interest rate risk is an inherent portfolio, business and capital risk for the Company, and significant changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, changes in unrealized positions, and liquidity. Changes in interest rates could also result in the Company having to recognize gains or losses because the Company disposes of some or all of its investments prior to their maturity.
The Company's exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the ability to invest future cash flows to support the interest rate assumption made at the time of the establishment of the Company's product pricing and reserving. Low levels of interest rates on investments experienced in Japan and the U.S. over the last decade have also reduced the level of investment income earned by the Company. While interest rates have increased in the U.S. and other regions, interest rates in Japan remain lower than in the U.S., and the Company's overall level of investment income will continue to be negatively impacted from Japan’s low interest rates and from investments made prior to the start of recent rate increases. While the Company generally seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio of fixed-income investments that reflects the cash flow and duration characteristics of the liabilities it supports, the Company may not be able to fully mitigate the interest rate risk of its assets relative to its liabilities. Prolonged periods of low interest rates also heighten the risk associated with future increases in interest rates because an increasing proportion of the Company's investment portfolio include investments that bear lower rates of return than the embedded book yield of the investment portfolio.
A sustained decline in interest rates could hinder the Company's ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the reserving for its insurance products at the time of sale and issue and may also influence the Company's ability to develop and price attractive new products and could impact its overall sales levels. The Company's first sector products are more interest rate sensitive than third sector products. As discussed in Item 1. Business, beginning in November 2022, Aflac Japan refreshed its first sector savings-type products WAYS and Child Endowment and began to actively promote sales of those products, which had been curtailed since 2013 due to persistent low interest rates in Japan. The continuing negative interest rate imposed by the Bank of Japan (BoJ) on excess bank reserves could continue to have a negative impact on the distribution and pricing of these products. Additionally, a decrease in interest rates increases the fair value of the Company’s fixed maturity investments, which could result in increases to the Company’s overall equity. However, the decrease in interest rates increases the liability for future policy benefits (LFPB), which could result in reductions to the Company’s overall equity.
Conversely and concurrently, a rise in interest rates would improve the Company's ability to earn higher rates of return on future investments, as well as floating rate investments held in its investment portfolio. A rise in interest rates also decreases the LFPB, which could result in increases to the Company's overall equity. However, rising interest rates negatively impact the fair values of the Company's fixed maturity investments which could result in reductions to the Company's overall equity. Portfolio management considerations, the availability of investments, as well as declines in fair value may constrain the ability of the Company to transition its investments to higher rate securities. Significant increases in interest rates could cause declines in the values of the Company's investment portfolio which have a secondary impact on the Company's overall evaluation of its deferred tax asset position. An increase in the differential of short-term U.S. and Japan interest rates would also increase the cost of hedging a portion of the U.S. dollar-denominated assets in the Aflac Japan segment into yen, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, some of the insurance products that Aflac sells in the U.S. and Japan provide cash surrender values, and a rise in interest rates could trigger significant policy surrenders, which might require the Company to sell investment assets and recognize unrealized losses. Rising interest rates also negatively impact capital ratios in certain jurisdictions because unrealized losses on the available-for-sale investment portfolio factor into the ratio. In addition to the unrealized losses negatively impacting capital ratios, significant unrealized losses could impact the amount of dividends that could be paid under local regulations, including in Japan. For Aflac Japan, rising interest rates and widening credit spreads, which go to reduce the fair value of Aflac Japan’s fixed-maturity investments, when combined with a strengthening yen, and the resulting decrease in the yen value of Aflac Japan’s U.S. dollar-denominated fixed-maturity
investments, have a negative impact to SMR. For regulatory accounting purposes for Aflac Japan, there are also certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by rising interest rates, negatively impacting Aflac Japan's regulatory earnings and corresponding dividends and capital deployment.
See the Interest Rate Risk subsection of Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for additional information.

Title: The Company's concentration of business in Japan poses risks to its operations and financial condition.
  Aflac Japan's adjusted revenues accounted for 60% of the Company's total adjusted revenues in 2023, compared with 64% in 2022 and 68% in 2021. The percentage of the Company's total assets attributable to Aflac Japan was 80% at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Any potential deterioration in Japan's credit quality or access to markets, the overall economy of Japan, or an increase in Japanese market volatility could adversely impact Aflac Japan's operations and its financial condition and thereby Aflac's overall financial performance. Further, because of the concentration of the Company's business in Japan and its need for long-dated yen-denominated assets, the Company has a substantial concentration of JGBs in its investment portfolio exposing the Company to credit deterioration and potential downgrades of JGBs. See the risk factor entitled “Any decrease in the Company's financial strength or debt ratings may have an adverse effect on its competitive position and access to liquidity and capital” for additional information.
The Company seeks to match investment currency and interest rate risk to its yen liabilities. The low interest rates on yen-denominated securities has a negative effect on overall net investment income. A large portion of the cash available for reinvestment each year is deployed in yen-denominated instruments and subject to the low level of yen interest rates.

Title: Lack of availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
  The Company aims to match both the duration and currency of its assets with its liabilities. This is very difficult for Aflac Japan and Aflac Re due to the lack of available long-dated yen-denominated fixed income instruments beyond JGBs.
Aflac Japan’s investment strategy includes U.S. dollar-denominated investments. This program includes public investment-grade bonds as well as U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade commercial mortgage loans, middle market loans, infrastructure debt, collateralized loan obligations and other loan types, high yield bond and public and private equities. The Company plans to continue adding other instruments denominated in U.S. dollars, including floating rate investments, to improve the portfolio diversification and/or return profile. Some of the U.S. dollar-denominated asset classes that the Company has added, and anticipates continuing to add, have less liquidity than investment-grade corporate bonds. Aflac Re's investment strategy also includes U.S. dollar-denominated investments that are presently comprised exclusively of public investment-grade bonds.
Investing in U.S. dollar-denominated investments in Aflac Japan and Aflac Re creates an unmatched foreign currency exposure and related capital ratio volatility, as both Aflac Japan and Aflac Re insurance liabilities are yen-denominated. Although the Company engages in certain foreign exchange hedging activities to partially mitigate this risk, and such hedged assets may be used to satisfy yen-denominated insurance liabilities and other business obligations, important risks remain.
In recent years, the Company has reduced the proportion of U.S. dollar-denominated investments that are subject to a currency hedge, and this proportion continues to be subject to change at the Company’s discretion. The Company has increased U.S. dollar risk exposure as the comprehensive hedging program may not always correlate to the underlying U.S. dollar-denominated assets, thereby increasing earnings volatility. These risks can significantly impact the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
Further, foreign exchange derivatives used for hedging are periodically settled, which results in cash receipt or payment at maturity or early termination. Cumulative net cash settlements on derivatives hedging currency exposure of Aflac Japan's U.S. dollar-denominated investments are associated with existing U.S. dollar-denominated investments that continue to be hedged, previously hedged investments that continue to be held but are no longer hedged, and investments previously hedged that have since been sold, matured or redeemed and may or may not have not been converted to yen. The Company’s foreign exchange derivatives are typically shorter-dated than the underlying U.S. dollar-denominated investments being hedged, which creates roll-over risks within the hedging program that could increase the cost of such
derivatives. If the Company reduces the notional amount of foreign exchange derivatives prior to the maturity of the hedged U.S. dollar-denominated investments, the foreign exchange gains or losses on the U.S. dollar-denominated investments remain economically unrealized. These foreign currency gains or losses on the investments are only economically realized, or monetized, through sale, maturity or redemption of the investments and concurrent conversion to yen. However, the Company may not realize the benefit of offsetting adverse cash settlements on hedging derivatives with cash receipts on the U.S. dollar-denominated investments if the currency exchange rates move in an adverse direction before the investments are converted to yen, or if the investments are never converted to yen. As an example of the latter, if the Company’s actual insurance risk experience in Japan is as expected or more favorable than expected, the need for yen to pay expenses and claims would correspondingly remain at or below expected levels, thereby diminishing operational requirements to convert U.S. dollar-denominated investments to yen. The settlement of the foreign exchange derivatives is reported in the investing activities section of the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows in the line item settlement of derivatives, net.
See the risk factor entitled “The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate”, the Hedging Activities subsection of Item 7. MD&A, and the Currency Risk subsection of Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for additional information.

Title: The Company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate.
  Due to the size of Aflac Japan, where functional currency is the Japanese yen, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the yen and the U.S. dollar can have a significant effect on the Company's reported financial position and results of operations. Aflac Japan's premiums and a significant portion of its investment income are received in yen, and its claims and almost all expenses are paid in yen. Aflac Japan purchases yen-denominated assets and U.S. dollar-denominated assets, which may be hedged to yen, to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. Certain unhedged U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities held by Aflac Japan are re-measured to yen with the volatility reported in earnings. Furthermore, the yen-denominated balance sheet of Aflac Japan is translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes with foreign exchange impact reflected in equity. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on the Company's reported financial position and results of operations. Yen weakening has the effect of suppressing current year results in relation to the prior year, while yen strengthening has the effect of magnifying current year results in relation to the prior year. In addition, the weakening of the yen relative to the U.S. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of the Company's yen-denominated investments in U.S. dollar terms. When the yen strengthens in relation to the U.S. dollar, the yen value of Aflac Japan's unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated investments decreases, resulting in a decrease in SMR. Further, unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated securities held by Aflac Japan are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations, which also impact SMR. As a result, periods of unusually volatile currency exchange rates could result in limitations on dividends available to the Parent Company.
The Company engages in certain foreign currency hedging activities to hedge the exposure to yen from its net investment in Japanese operations. These hedging activities are limited in scope, and the Company cannot provide assurance that these activities will be effective. In addition, an increase in the difference between short-term U.S. and Japan interest rates would increase the cost of hedging a portion of the U.S. dollar-denominated assets in the Aflac Japan segment into yen, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. As indicated in MD&A, the Company has determined that the unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated investment portfolio acts as a natural economic currency hedge of a portion of the Company’s investment in Aflac Japan against erosion of economic value. At the same time, the unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated investment portfolio creates an unmatched foreign currency exposure and subjects Aflac Japan to volatility in regulatory capital, including SMR, and earnings, which may adversely impact Aflac Japan’s ability to pay dividends to the Parent Company. The Company has historically maintained and currently maintains the size of the unhedged portfolio at levels below the economic equity surplus in Aflac Japan, but there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful.
For regulatory accounting purposes, there are certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by changes in the rate of exchange between the yen and U.S. dollar and could negatively impact Aflac Japan's earnings and the corresponding dividends and capital deployment.
Additionally, the Company is exposed to currency risk when yen cash flows are converted into U.S. dollars, resulting in changes in the Company's U.S. dollar-denominated cash flows and earnings when exchange gains or losses, respectively, are realized. This primarily occurs when Aflac Japan pays dividends in yen to the Parent Company, but it also has an impact when cash in the form of yen is converted to U.S. dollars for investment into U.S. dollar-denominated assets. The exchange rates prevailing at the time of dividend payment may differ from the exchange rates prevailing at the time the yen profits were earned. The Parent Company utilizes forward contracts to accomplish a dual objective of hedging foreign currency exchange rate risk related to dividend payments by Aflac Japan, and reducing enterprise-wide
hedge costs. However, if the markets experience a significant strengthening of yen, this could cause cash strain at the Parent Company as a result of cash collateral and potentially cash settlement requirements. Based on the timing and severity of exchange rate fluctuations combined with the level of outstanding activity in this program, the cash strain at the Parent Company could be significant.
For additional information regarding unhedged U.S. dollar-denominated securities, see the risk factor above entitled, “Lack of availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity”. See the Currency Risk subsection of Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for additional information.

Title: The valuation of the Company's investments and derivatives includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may adversely affect the Company's results of operations or financial condition.
  The Company reports a significant amount of its fixed maturity securities and other investments at fair value. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and valuation methods that are more sophisticated, thereby resulting in values that may be greater or less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within the Company's consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.
Valuations of the Company's derivatives fluctuate with changes in underlying market variables, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. During periods of market turbulence created by political instability, economic uncertainty, government interventions or other factors, the Company may experience significant changes in the volatility of its derivative valuations. Extreme market conditions can also affect the liquidity of such instruments creating marked differences in transaction levels and counterparty valuations. Depending on the severity and direction of the movements in its derivative valuations, the Company will face increases in the amount of collateral required to be posted with its counterparties. Liquidity stresses to the Company may also occur if the required collateral amounts increase significantly over a very short period of time. Conversely, the Company may be exposed to an increase in counterparty credit risk for short periods of time while calling collateral from its counterparties.
See the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Item 7. MD&A, and Notes 1, 3, 4, and 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Title: The determination of the amount of expected credit losses recorded on the Company's investments is based on significant valuation judgments and could materially impact its results of operations or financial position.
  The Company estimates an expected lifetime credit loss on investments measured at amortized cost including held-to-maturity fixed maturity securities, loan receivables and loan commitments. For collateral dependent financial assets, including loans where foreclosure is probable, expected credit losses are based on the fair value of the underlying collateral. For the Company’s available-for-sale fixed maturity securities, the Company evaluates estimated credit losses only when the fair value of the available-for-sale fixed maturity security is below its amortized cost basis.
The Company’s approach to estimating credit losses is complex and incorporates significant judgments. In addition to a security, or an asset class, or issuer-specific credit fundamentals, it considers relevant historical information (e.g. loss statistics), current market conditions and reasonable and supportable micro and macroeconomic forecasts. The Company's management updates its expected credit loss assumptions regularly as conditions change and as new information becomes available and reflects expected credit losses in the Company's earnings when considered necessary. Furthermore, additional credit losses may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future expectations of credit losses. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
The Company cannot provide assurance that these evaluations will be accurate and effective. If the Company’s estimates of credit losses are not accurate and actual credit losses are higher than the Company’s estimates, the Company’s net income and capital position will be negatively impacted. These higher losses would also negatively affect the Company's solvency ratios in the U.S. and Japan .
For regulatory accounting purposes for Aflac Japan, there are certain requirements for realizing impairments that could be triggered by rising interest rates, credit-related losses, or changes in foreign exchange, negatively impacting Aflac Japan's earnings and corresponding dividend and capital deployment.

Title: Any decrease in the Company's financial strength or debt ratings may have an adverse effect on its competitive position and access to liquidity and capital.
  NRSROs may change their ratings or outlook on an insurer's ratings due to a variety of factors including but not limited to competitive position; profitability; cash generation and other sources of liquidity; capital levels; quality of the investment portfolio; and perception of management capabilities. The ratings assigned to the Company by the NRSROs are important factors in the Company's ability to access liquidity and capital from the bank market, debt capital markets or other available sources, such as reinsurance transactions. Downgrades of the Company's credit ratings could give its derivative counterparties the right to require early termination of derivatives transactions or delivery of additional collateral, thereby adversely affecting the Company's liquidity.
Downgrades of the Company's ratings could also have a material adverse effect on agent recruiting and retention, sales, competitiveness and the marketability of its products, all of which could negatively impact the Company's liquidity, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, sales through the bank channel in Japan could be adversely affected as a result of their reliance on and sensitivity to ratings levels.
The Company cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions the Company may take in response to the actions of rating agencies. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company's ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any NRSRO .

Title: A decline in the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company.
  The Company has exposure to and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including broker dealers, derivative counterparties, commercial banks and other institutions. The Company uses derivative instruments to mitigate various risks associated with its investment portfolio, notes payable, and subsidiary dividends. The Company's use of derivatives results in financial exposure to derivative counterparties. If the Company's counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under derivative instruments, the Company's hedges of the risks will be ineffective, and the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
The Company engages in derivative transactions directly with affiliates and unaffiliated third parties under International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) agreements and other documentation. Most of the ISDA agreements also include Credit Support Annexes (CSAs), which generally provide for two-way collateral postings at the first dollar of exposure. In addition, a significant portion of the derivative transactions have provisions that give the counterparty the right to terminate the transaction upon a downgrade of Aflac’s financial strength rating. The actual amount of payments that the Company could be required to make depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions, and other factors prevailing at and after the time of the downgrade. If the Company is required to post collateral to support derivative contracts and/or pay cash to settle the contracts at maturity, the Company's liquidity could be strained. In addition, the Company's cleared swaps result in counterparty exposure to clearing brokers and central clearinghouses; while this exposure is mitigated in part by clearinghouse and clearing broker capital and regulation, no assurance can be provided that these counterparties will fulfill their obligations. The Company also has exposure to counterparties to securities lending transactions in the event they fail to return loaned securities. The Company is also exposed to the risk that there may be a decline in value of securities posted as collateral for securities lending programs or a decline in value of investments made with cash posted as collateral for such programs.
Further, the Company has agreements with various Japanese financial institutions for the distribution of its insurance products. For example, at December 31, 2023, the Company had agreements with 360 banks to market Aflac's products in Japan. Sales through these banks represented 3.3% of Aflac Japan's new annualized premium sales in 2023. Any material adverse effect on these or other financial institutions could also have an adverse effect on the Company's sales.
The Company has entered into significant reinsurance transactions with large, highly rated counterparties, including affiliates. In addition, Aflac Japan has entered into reinsurance transactions with Aflac Re. Aflac Re is a newly formed entity with less capital than external counterparties with which the Company has conducted reinsurance transactions in the past. Negative events or developments affecting any one of these counterparties could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
All of these risks related to exposure to other financial institutions could adversely impact the Company's consolidated results of operations and financial condition.

Title: Operational-Related Risk Factors
  Title: Sales of the Company's products and services are dependent on its ability to attract, retain and support a network of qualified sales associates, brokers and employees in the U.S. and sales associates and other distribution partners in Japan.
  The Company's sales, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if its sales networks deteriorate or if the Company does not adequately provide support, training and education for its existing network of sales associates, brokers, other distribution partners and employees. In the U.S., competition exists for sales associates and brokers with demonstrated ability. Further, low rates of unemployment, such as those currently reflected in the U.S. employment market, tend to make it more difficult for Aflac U.S. to maintain its network of sales associates. In Japan, the Company's sales results are dependent upon its relationship with sales associates and other distribution partners, including Japan Post Group. Sales of Aflac Japan cancer products in the Japan Post Group channel experienced a material decline beginning in August 2019. While Japan Post Group resumed proactive sales of cancer insurance policies in April 2021, the Company can provide no assurance regarding the ultimate timing or extent of any recovery in such sales. It is uncertain what long-term effect these developments will have on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition, but any such effects could be material. See the Aflac Japan Segment section of Item 7. MD&A for additional information.
The Company competes with other insurers and financial institutions primarily on the basis of its products, compensation, support services and financial rating. The Company's sales associates, brokers and other distribution partners are independent contractors and may sell products of its competitors. If the Company's competitors offer products that are more attractive, or pay higher commissions than the Company does, any or all of these distribution partners may concentrate their efforts on selling the Company's competitors' products instead of the Company's. In addition to the Company's commissioned sales force in the U.S., Aflac has expanded its sales leadership team to include a salaried sales force of over 200 market directors and broker sales professionals. The Company's inability to attract and retain qualified sales associates, brokers and other distribution partners, including its alliance partners in Japan, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales, results of operations and financial condition.
Additionally, as the Japan and U.S. employment markets continue to evolve, there is risk that the Company's practices regarding attracting, developing, and retaining employees may not be fully effective. Employees may leave the Company or choose other employers over the Company due to various factors, including a competitive labor market. Although Aflac U.S. has not experienced any material labor shortage to date, it has experienced elevated levels of workforce turnover and there has been an overall tightening of, and increased competition within, the U.S. labor market. These conditions, together with higher levels of inflation may result in increased operating expenses. A sustained labor shortage or continuing increased turnover rates within the Aflac U.S. workforce, due to labor market factors or the state of the U.S. economy, could lead to increased costs of the day-to-day operation of the Aflac U.S. business, the inability to hire and retain employees, or the outsourcing of certain operations. Failure to successfully meet and maintain sufficient levels of employees may diminish the Company's ability to achieve its financial and compliance objectives, both of which are time consuming and personnel-intensive.

Title: If future policy benefits, claims or expenses exceed those anticipated in establishing premiums and reserves, the Company's financial results would be adversely affected.
  The assumptions and estimates that the Company uses in establishing premiums and reserves depend on the Company's judgment regarding the likelihood of future events and are inherently uncertain. Many factors can cause actual outcomes to deviate from these assumptions and estimates, such as changes in incidence rates, economic conditions, changes in government healthcare policy, advances in medical technology, changes in treatment patterns, and changes in average lifespan. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that it will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and claims or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow to the level the Company assumes prior to payment of benefits or claims. If the Company's actual experience is different from its assumptions or estimates, the Company's premiums and reserves may prove inadequate. Reserve assumptions are regularly reviewed by the Company and may be revised if future expectations change. These experience deviations and assumption updates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.

Title: The success of the Company's business depends in part on effective information technology systems, on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology, and on successful execution of revenue growth and expense management initiatives.
  The Company's business depends in large part on its technology systems for interacting with employers, policyholders, sales associates, and brokers, and the Company's business strategy involves providing customers with easy-to-use products to meet their needs and ensuring employees have the technology in place to support those needs. Some of the Company's information technology systems and software are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade to current standards including adequate business continuity procedures. As such, the Company is investing in technology and other capabilities to continuously enhance its customer experience, while also seeking to increase efficiencies. The Company is also developing new and innovative products and enhancing existing products. The Company will continue to incur expenses related to, among other things, investments in digital capabilities and product innovation including the development and use of artificial intelligence (AI). The Company’s development of new technology, including the use of AI by the Company and third-party vendors, could lead to an increased risk of a business interruption or a cybersecurity breach. Further, the Company’s long-term strategy depends on successful operational execution and its ability to execute on its transformational initiatives, including investments in technology and other initiatives intended to grow revenue and control expenses, combined with its ability to achieve efficiencies and attract and retain personnel. If the Company does not maintain the effectiveness of its systems and continue to develop and enhance information systems that support its business processes in a cost-efficient manner, the Company's sales, business retention, operations and reputation could be adversely affected and it could be exposed to litigation, regulatory proceedings and fines or penalties.

Title: Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm the Company's business.
  The Company stores confidential policyholder, employee, agent, broker, and other proprietary information on its information technology systems. The Company also depends heavily on its telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data it uses to run its businesses and service its customers. The Company’s information technology and other systems, as well as those of third-party providers and participants in the Company’s distribution channels, have been and will likely continue to be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering, security breaches, social engineering, phishing, web application attacks, computer viruses or other malicious codes, or other cyber-related attacks, that may result in the failure to adequately maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity, or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to customers and prospective customers, or in the misappropriation of the Company's intellectual property or proprietary information. The risk of a cyber incident impacting business operations has grown as third parties continue to develop new and highly sophisticated methods of attack. The Company and its third-parties or vendors have and may continue to experience outages or cyberattacks that disrupt the operations or impact the confidentiality, availability or integrity of information, which may result in operational, legal, regulatory or financial harm. Furthermore, depending upon the type of attack, it could impact the confidentiality, integrity and/or availability of IT systems and data, disrupting business operations and resulting in the loss of consumer confidence. Although the Company attempts to manage its exposure to such events through the purchase of cyber liability insurance, such events are inherently unpredictable, and insurance may not be sufficient to protect the Company against all losses. As a result, events such as these could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operation. Although the minor data leakage issues the Company has experienced to date have not had a material effect on its business, there is no assurance that the Company's security systems or processes will prevent or mitigate future break-ins, tampering, security breaches or other cyber-related attacks. As the Company pursues IT transformation and increased cloud adoption, it inherently exposes the Company to potential cyber related attacks.
Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by the Company or others, including third-party providers and participants in the company’s distribution channels, could delay or disrupt the Company's ability to do business and service its customers, seriously harm the Company's brand, reputation, and ability to compete effectively, subject it to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect the Company's business. In addition, the costs to address or remediate system interruptions or security threats and vulnerabilities, whether before or after an incident, could be significant.

Title: As a holding company, the Parent Company depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock.
  The Parent Company is a holding company and has no direct operations, and its most significant assets are the stock of its subsidiaries. Because the Parent Company conducts its operations through its operating subsidiaries, the Parent Company depends on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its debt service and other obligations, to pay dividends on and conduct repurchases of its common stock, and to make investments into its subsidiaries or external opportunities.
Aflac is domiciled in Nebraska and is subject to insurance regulations that impose certain limitations and restrictions on payments of dividends, management fees, loans and advances by Aflac to the Parent Company. The Nebraska insurance statutes require prior approval for dividend distributions that exceed the greater of the net income from operations, which excludes net realized investment gains, for the previous year determined under statutory accounting principles, or 10% of statutory capital and surplus as of the previous year-end. The Nebraska insurance department also must approve service arrangements and other transactions within the affiliated group of companies. After the Japan branch conversion, the Nebraska insurance department and the FSA approved their respective domiciled insurance company service arrangements and transactions. The FSA does not allow dividends or other payments from Aflac Japan unless it meets certain financial criteria as governed by Japanese corporate law. Under these criteria, dividend capacity at the Japan subsidiary will be defined as retained earnings plus other capital reserve less net after-tax net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities.
The ability of Aflac and Aflac Japan to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company could also be constrained by the Company's dependency on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies. The Company's ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on Aflac's capitalization level. Any inability of Aflac to pay dividends or make other payments to the Parent Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
For the foregoing reasons, there is no assurance that the earnings from, or other available assets of, the Parent Company's operating subsidiaries will be sufficient to make distributions to enable the Company to operate.

Title: The Company's risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave the Company exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect the Company's businesses or result in losses.
  The Company has developed an enterprise-wide risk management and governance framework to mitigate risk and loss to the Company. The Company maintains policies, procedures and controls intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the risks to which the Company is exposed. However, there are inherent limitations to risk management strategies because risk may exist, or emerge in the future, that the Company has not appropriately anticipated or identified. If the Company's risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As the Company's businesses change and the markets in which it operates evolve, the Company's risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes, and risks may not be appropriately identified, monitored or managed. In times of market stress, unanticipated market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from greater than expected morbidity, mortality, longevity, or persistency, the effectiveness of the Company's risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to the Company. Under difficult or less liquid market conditions, the Company's risk management strategies may be ineffective or more difficult or expensive to execute because other market participants may be using the same or similar strategies to manage risk.
Many of the Company's risk management strategies or techniques are based upon historical customer and market behavior and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management’s subjective judgment. The Company cannot provide assurance that its risk management framework, including the underlying assumptions or strategies, will be accurate and effective.
Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies, procedures and controls to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies, procedures and controls may not be fully effective. The Company's businesses and corporate areas primarily use models to project future cash flows associated with pricing products, calculating reserves and valuing assets, and evaluating risk and determining capital requirements, among other uses. These models are utilized under a risk management policy approved by the Company's executive risk management committees, however, the models may not operate properly and rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. As the Company's businesses continue to grow and evolve, the number and
complexity of models the Company utilizes expands, increasing the Company's exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data and assumptions.
Past or future misconduct by the Company's employees or employees of third parties (suppliers which are cost-based relationships and alliance partners which are revenue-generating relationships) could result in violations of law by the Company, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Despite the Company's published Supplier Code of Conduct, due diligence of the Company's alliance partners, and rigorous contracting procedures (including financial, legal, IT security, AI and risk reviews), there can be no assurance that controls and procedures that the Company employs will be effective. Additionally, the use of third parties also poses operational risks that could result in financial loss, operational disruption, brand damage, or compliance issues. Inadequate oversight of the Company's third-party suppliers due to the lack of policies, procedures, training and governance may lead to financial loss or damage to the Aflac brand.

Title: The use of third-party vendors to support the Company's operations makes the Company susceptible to the operational risk of those third parties, which could lower revenues, increase costs, reduce profits, disrupt business, or damage the Company’s reputation.
  The Company utilizes third-party vendors to provide certain business support services and functions, which exposes the Company to risks outside the control of the Company that may lead to business disruptions. The reliance on these third-party vendors creates a number of business risks, such as the risk that the Company may not maintain service quality, control or effective management of the outsourced business operations and that the Company cannot control the information systems, facilities or networks of such third-party vendors. Additionally, the Company is at risk of being unable to meet legal, regulatory, financial or customer obligations if the information systems, facilities or networks of a third-party vendor are disrupted, damaged or fail, whether due to physical disruptions, such as fire, natural disaster, pandemic or power outage, or due to cybersecurity incidents, ransomware or other impacts to vendors, including labor strikes, political unrest and terrorist attacks. Since certain third-party vendors conduct operations for the Company outside the U.S., the political and military events in foreign jurisdictions could have an adverse impact on the Company’s outsourced operations. The Company may be adversely affected by a third-party vendor who operates in a poorly controlled manner or fails to deliver contracted services, which could lower revenues, increase costs, reduce profits, disrupt business, or damage the Company’s reputation.

Title: Regulatory Risk Factors
  Title: Tax rates applicable to the Company may change.
  The Company is subject to taxation in Japan, and in the U.S. under federal and numerous state and local tax jurisdictions. In preparing the Company's financial statements, the Company estimates the amount of tax that will become payable, but the Company's effective tax rate may be different than estimates due to numerous factors including accounting for income taxes, the mix of earnings from Japan and the U.S., the results of tax audits, adjustments to the value of uncertain tax positions, changes to estimates and other factors. Further, changes in U.S. or Japan tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase the Company's corporate taxes and reduce earnings.
In addition, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on the Company's earnings both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, including in connection with the current presidential administration's continuing interest in raising revenue from the corporate sector in the U.S. Any of these factors could cause the Company to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or the Company's current estimates. If the Company's effective tax rate were to increase, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

Title: If the Company fails to comply with restrictions on customer privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure that its third-party service providers and business associates who access, store, process or transmit sensitive customer information maintain its security, integrity, confidentiality and availability, the Company's reputation and business operations could be materially adversely affected.
  The collection, maintenance, use, protection, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by the Company's businesses are regulated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and rules are subject to change by legislation or administrative or judicial interpretation. With regard to personal information obtained from policyholders, the insured, or others, Aflac Japan is regulated in Japan by the APPI and guidelines issued by FSA and other governmental authorities.
Various state laws in the U.S. address the unauthorized access and acquisition of personal information and the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data. HIPAA requires the Company to impose privacy and security requirements on its business associates (as such term is defined in the HIPAA regulations). Several states including California and New York, in which Aflac U.S. conducts significant portions of its business, have made changes to their privacy or cybersecurity laws or regulations in recent years. Further, the U.S. Congress and many states are considering new privacy and security requirements that would apply to the Company's business. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, requirements, and new regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, new limitations or constraints on the Company's business models, the development of new administrative processes, and the effects of potential noncompliance by the Company's business associates. They also may impose further restrictions on the Company's collection, disclosure and use of customer identifiable data that are housed in one or more of the Company's administrative databases. Noncompliance with any privacy laws or any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, theft or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information, whether by the Company or by one of its third parties, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, reputation, brand and results of operations, including: material fines and penalties; compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages; consent orders regarding the Company's privacy and security practices; adverse actions against the Company's licenses to do business; and injunctive relief.
In addition, under Japanese laws and regulations, including the APPI, if a leak or loss of personal information by Aflac Japan or its business associates should occur, depending on factors such as the volume of personal data involved and the likelihood of other secondary damage, Aflac Japan may be required to file reports to the FSA; issue public releases explaining such incident to the public; or become subject to an FSA business improvement order, which could pose a risk to the Company's reputation.
Although the Company provides for appropriate protections through its contracts and performs information security risk assessments of its third-party service providers and business associates, the Company still has limited control over their actions and practices. In addition, despite the security measures the Company has in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, the Company's facilities and systems, and those of the Company's third-party providers and participants in its distribution channels may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. From time to time, the Company, its third-party providers and participants in the Company’s distribution channels have experienced and will likely continue to experience such events. In such cases, notification to affected individuals, state and federal regulators, state attorneys general and media may be required, depending upon the number of affected individuals and whether personal information including health or financial data was subject to unauthorized access.

Title: Extensive regulation and changes in legislation can impact profitability and growth.
  The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to complex laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of governmental authorities, that exercise a degree of interpretive latitude, including the FSA and Ministry of Finance (MOF) in Japan, state insurance regulators, the BMA in Bermuda, the SEC, the NAIC, the FIO, the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, including the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), in the U.S. The Company is subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal or regulatory issue may result in non-compliance with another regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. Further, regulatory authorities periodically re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
In July 2023, new regulations were proposed by the U.S. Departments of Labor, Treasury and Health and Human Services related to (i) short-term, limited-duration insurance, (ii) fixed indemnity and hospital indemnity excepted benefits, (iii) specified disease or illness excepted benefits, and (iv) tax treatments of fixed amounts received through employment-based accident or health insurance. The timing and substance of the final regulations, if any, is not known, but if passed in the proposed form, these regulations could materially affect sales of Aflac U.S.
Additionally, changes in the overall legal or regulatory environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of an issue changing, cause the Company to change its views regarding the actions it needs to take from a legal or regulatory risk management perspective. This may necessitate changes to the Company's practices that may, in some cases, limit its ability to grow or otherwise negatively impact the profitability of the Company's business.
If the Company's subsidiaries fail to meet the minimum capital or operational requirements established by its respective regulators, they could be subject to examination or corrective action, or the Company's financial strength ratings could be downgraded, or both. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase the Company's direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. For additional information, see the Government Regulation subsections of Item 1. Business.

Title: General Risk Factors
  Title: Competition could adversely affect the Company's ability to increase or maintain its market share or profitability.
  The Company operates in a competitive environment and in an industry that is subject to ongoing changes from market pressures brought about by customer demands, legislative reform, marketing practices and changes to health care and health insurance delivery. These factors require the Company to anticipate market trends and make changes to differentiate the Company's products and services from those of its competitors. The Company also faces potential competition from existing or new companies in the U.S. and Japan that have not historically been active in the supplemental health insurance industry, but some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than the Company. Further, some of these potential competitors could introduce new means of product development and delivery that disrupt the Company’s business model. Failure to anticipate market trends and/or to differentiate the Company's products and services can affect the Company's ability to retain or grow profitable lines of business. Further, as employers and brokers are increasingly requesting a full suite of products from one insurance provider, a failure to react and adapt to these demands could result in decreased sales or market share.
The Company's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for the Company's products and services and to create additional efficiencies in its operations. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. A failure to meet evolving customer demands through innovative product development, effective distribution channels, and continuous investment in the Company's technology could adversely affect the Company's operating results. Further, the evolving fragmentation of media and marketing channels that has developed over recent years could weaken the impact of the Company’s advertising efforts over time. As a result, the Company's ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and its business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.

Title: Catastrophic events, including those as a result of climate change or major public health issues, could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations as well as the availability of the Company’s infrastructure and systems.
  The Company's insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events including, but not necessarily limited to, epidemics, pandemics, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, war or other military action, major public health issues and terrorism or other acts of violence. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in the Company's financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce its profitability or harm the Company's financial condition, as well as affect its ability to write new business. In addition, such events may lead to periods of voluntary or required premium grace periods, which may lead to volatility in lapse rates and related premiums. Any resulting or coincidental economic effects could impact the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, capital position, liquidity or prospects in a number of ways. These catastrophic events may cause changes to estimates of future earnings, capital deployment and other guidance the Company has provided to the markets in the 2024 Outlook section of Item 7. MD&A.
Additionally, the Company's operations, as well as those of its vendors, service providers and counterparties, may be adversely affected by such catastrophic events to the extent they disrupt the Company's physical infrastructure, human resources or systems that support its businesses and customers. Although the Company has a global crisis management framework to minimize the business disruption from a catastrophic event, such framework may not be effective to avoid an adverse impact to the Company from such an event. While the assessment of risks related to climate change are part of the Company's credit review process, climate change-related risks may adversely impact the value of the securities that the Company holds. Climate change may increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and forest fires. Further, the Company cannot predict the effects that any legal or regulatory changes made in response to climate change concerns or major public health issues would have on the Company's business.

Title: Events, including those external to the Company's operations, could damage the Company's reputation.
  The Company has made significant investments in the Aflac brand over a long period of time. Because insurance products are intangible, the Company's ability to compete for and maintain policyholders relies to a large extent on consumer trust in the Company's business, including its alliance partners, sales associates and other distribution partners. The perception of unfavorable business practices or financial weakness with respect to the Company, its alliance partners, sales associates or other distribution partners could create doubt regarding the Company's ability to honor the commitments it has made to its policyholders. Such perceptions could also negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates, brokers and other distribution partners, including its alliance partners in Japan, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales, results of operations and financial condition. These effects could also result from a perception of a lack of commitment to sustainability efforts and attention to societal impacts, unfavorable positions on items of public policy, or from failure to make progress toward the Company's sustainability goals. Maintaining the Company's stature as a trustworthy insurer and responsible corporate citizen, which helps support the strength of the Company's brand, is critical to the Company's reputation and the failure or perceived failure to do so could adversely affect the Company's brand value, financial condition and results of operations.

Title: The Company depends heavily on key management personnel, and the loss of services of one or more of its key executives could harm the Company's business.
  The Company’s success depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of its key management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the Company's senior executives could significantly undermine its management expertise, and the Company's business could be adversely affected.

Title: Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standard Boards (FASB) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect the Company's financial statements.
  The Company's financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time the Company is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. Changes to accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. For additional information, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Title: The Company faces risks related to litigation, regulatory investigations and inquiry and other matters.
  The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits considered to be in the normal course of business. The final results of any litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and plaintiffs may seek very large amounts in class actions or other litigation. Although some of this litigation is pending in states where large punitive damages, bearing little relation to the actual damages sustained by plaintiffs, have been awarded in recent years, the Company believes the outcome of pending litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, a substantial legal liability or a significant federal, state or other regulatory action against the Company, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations, could harm the Company's reputation, result in changes in operations, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant costs due to legal fees, settlements or judgments against the Company, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Without limiting the foregoing, the litigation and regulatory matters the Company is, has been, or may become, subject to include matters related to sales agent recruiting, policy sales practices, claim payments and procedures including denial or delay of benefits, the low level of Aflac U.S. benefit ratios in recent financial periods, material misstatements or omissions in the Company's financial reports or other public statements, and/or corporate governance, corporate culture or business ethics matters. Further, the Company may be subject to claims of or litigation regarding sexual or other forms of misconduct or harassment, or discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, or other bases, notwithstanding that the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits such harassment and discrimination by its employees, the Company has ongoing training programs and provides opportunities to report claims of noncompliant conduct, and it investigates and may take disciplinary action regarding alleged harassment or discrimination. Any violations of or deviation from laws, regulations, internal or external codes or standards of normative behavior, or perceptions of such violations or deviations, by the Company's employees or by independent sales agents could adversely impact the Company's reputation and brand value, financial condition and results of operations.

Title: Allegations or determinations of agent misclassification could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
  A majority of the Company's U.S. sales force is, and has historically been, comprised of independent agents. While the Company believes that it has properly classified such agents as independent contractors, the Company may be subject to claims, regulatory action by state or federal departments of labor or tax authorities, changes in state or federal law, or litigation asserting that such agents are employees. The laws and regulations governing the classification of workers in the U.S. may be changed or interpreted differently compared to past interpretations, including in states where the Company generates significant sales through independent agents. An allegation or determination that independent agents in the Company’s U.S. sales force have been misclassified as independent contractors could result in changes in the Company’s operations and U.S. business model, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant costs due to legal fees, settlements or judgments against the Company, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity.

Title: ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  Not applicable.

Title: ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY
  Due to the ever-changing cybersecurity landscape, the Company’s board of directors has adopted an information security policy directing management to establish and operate a global information security program with the goals of identifying, assessing and monitoring existing and emerging cybersecurity threats and ensuring that the Company’s information assets and data, and the data of its customers, are appropriately protected from loss or theft. The Board has delegated oversight of the Company’s information security program to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Company’s senior officers, including its Global Security and Chief Information Security Officer (GSCISO), are responsible for the operation of the global information security program and communicate quarterly with the Audit and Risk Committee on the program, including with respect to the state of the program, compliance with applicable regulations, risks associated with current and evolving threats, and recommendations for changes in the information security program. The global information security program includes a cybersecurity incident response plan that is designed to provide a management framework across Company functions for a coordinated assessment and response to potential security incidents. This framework establishes a protocol to report certain incidents to the GSCISO and other senior officers, with the goal of timely assessing such incidents, determining applicable disclosure requirements and communicating with the Audit and Risk Committee. The incident response plan directs the executive officers to report certain incidents immediately and directly to the Lead Non-Management Director or the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee. The above framework tracks and allows team members to monitor each incident throughout its lifecycle to ensure the Company is informed about and following cybersecurity incidents as they are mitigated and remediated. Post-incident reviews are also performed to determine if there are any additional controls that may feasibly be implemented to prevent recurrence.
As a part of the global information security program, an enterprise cybersecurity risk assessment is performed annually in coordination with the GSCISO to identify and assess material cybersecurity risks and mitigating controls. The assessment results are incorporated into a risk register managed by the Company’s overall enterprise risk management group to integrate the risks into the overall risk management processes. The Company engages with independent firms to conduct operational control assessments, which cover information protection. Every three years, the Company engages independent consultants specifically for cyber matters. Additionally, the Company performs third-party risk assessments to evaluate security controls and identify inherent and residual risks associated with third-party engagements. Issues identified during third-party risk assessments are documented and escalated to Company management through an established committee structure based on the risk ratings associated with each issue.
The Company also utilizes professionals from the Company’s legal team and GSCISO's leadership team, a majority of whom have specialized skills and knowledge in cybersecurity risk management based on their prior work experience and relevant industry certifications, such as Certified Information Systems Security Professional and Certified Information Security Manager, to assist in assessing cybersecurity risks, materiality of cybersecurity incidents and disclosures of the same. Specifically, the GSCISO has security experience in the public sector and private sector financial services industry holding positions in areas such as business continuity, information assurance, and technology risk management as well as being a Certified Information Systems Security Professional, Certified Information Security Manager and Certified Project
Manager as well as being certified in Risk and Information Systems Control. The GSCISO and his direct reports have an average of approximately 23 years of experience in the field of cybersecurity.
See Item 1A. Risk Factors for the risk factor titled "Interruption in telecommunication, information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm the Company's business" for additional information regarding how the Company's business strategy, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected by risks from cybersecurity threats.

Title: ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
  In Tokyo, Japan, the Company has two primary campuses. The first campus includes a building, owned by the Company, for the customer call center, the claims department, the information technology departments, and training facility. This campus also includes a leased property, which houses Aflac Japan's policy administration and customer service departments. The second campus comprises leased office space, which serves as Aflac Japan's headquarters and houses administrative and investment support functions. The Company also leases additional office space in Tokyo, along with regional offices located throughout the country.
In the U.S., the Company owns land and buildings that comprise two primary campuses located in Columbus, Georgia. These campuses include buildings that serve as the Company's worldwide headquarters and house administrative support and information technology functions for U.S. operations. The Company leases office space in Columbia, South Carolina, which houses the Company's CAIC subsidiary (branded as Aflac Group Insurance); in New York, New York, which houses the Company's Global Investment division; in Tampa, Florida, which houses the Company's ABS subsidiary; and in Farmington, Connecticut, Windsor, Connecticut and Plantation, Florida, which houses the operations of the Company's group life, disability and absence management business. The Company leases other administrative office space throughout the U.S., Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom, and Bermuda.
The Company believes its properties are adequate and suitable for its business as currently conducted and are adequately maintained.

Title: ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits and receives various regulatory inquiries considered to be in the normal course of business. Members of the Company's senior legal and financial management teams review litigation and regulatory inquiries on a quarterly and annual basis. The final results of any litigation or regulatory inquiries cannot be predicted with certainty. Although some of this litigation is pending in states where large punitive damages, bearing little relation to the actual damages sustained by plaintiffs, have been awarded in recent years, the Company believes the outcome of pending litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Title: ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
  Not applicable.