Title: PART I
  Title: Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties.
  Title: General
  Adams Resources & Energy, Inc. (“AE”) is a publicly traded Delaware corporation organized in 1973. Our common shares are listed on the NYSE American LLC (“NYSE American”) under the ticker symbol “AE”. Through our subsidiaries, we are primarily engaged in crude oil marketing, truck and pipeline transportation of crude oil, and terminalling and storage in various crude oil and natural gas basins in the lower 48 states of the United States (“U.S.”). In addition, we conduct tank truck transportation of liquid chemicals, pressurized gases, asphalt and dry bulk primarily in the lower 48 states of the U.S. with deliveries into Canada and Mexico, and with seventeen terminals across the U.S. We also recycle and repurpose off-specification fuels, lubricants, crude oil and other chemicals from producers in the U.S. Our headquarters are located in 22,197 square feet of office space located at 17 South Briar Hollow Lane, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77027. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “AE” are intended to mean the business and operations of Adams Resources & Energy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We operate and report in four business segments: (i) crude oil marketing, transportation and storage; (ii) tank truck transportation of liquid chemicals, pressurized gases, asphalt and dry bulk; (iii) pipeline transportation, terminalling and storage of crude oil; and (iv) interstate bulk transportation logistics of crude oil, condensate, fuels, oils and other petroleum products and recycling and repurposing of off-specification fuels, lubricants, crude oil and other chemicals. For detailed financial information regarding our business segments, see Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this annual report.

Title: Business Segments
  Title: Crude Oil Marketing
  Our crude oil marketing segment consists of the operations of our wholly owned subsidiary, GulfMark Energy, Inc. (“GulfMark”). Our crude oil marketing activities generate revenue from the sale and delivery of crude oil purchased either directly from producers or from others on the open market. We also derive revenue from third party transportation contracts. We purchase crude oil and arrange sales and deliveries to refiners and other customers, primarily onshore in Texas, North Dakota, Michigan, Wyoming, Colorado and Louisiana. 2
Our crude oil marketing activities includes a fleet of 163 tractor-trailer rigs, the majority of which we own and operate, used to transport crude oil. We also maintain approximately 180 pipeline inventory locations or injection stations. We have the ability to barge crude oil from six crude oil storage facilities along the Intracoastal Waterway of Texas and Louisiana, and we have access to approximately 889,000 barrels of storage capacity at the dock facilities in order to access waterborne markets for our products.
The following table shows the age of our owned and leased tractors and trailers within our crude oil marketing segment at December 31, 2023:
____________________ (1) Includes twenty-seven 2024 tractors, twenty-one 2023 tractors, sixteen 2021 tractors and five 2019 tractors that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. (2) Includes two 2024 trailers, one 2007 trailer and two 2004 trailers that we lease from third parties under finance lease agreements. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
We purchase crude oil at the field (wellhead) level. Volume and price information were as follows for the periods indicated:
____________________ (1) Reflects the volume purchased from third parties at the field level of operations. 3
Field level purchase volumes depict our day-to-day operations of acquiring crude oil at the wellhead, transporting crude oil, and delivering it to market sales points. We held crude oil inventory at a weighted average composite price as follows at the dates indicated (in barrels):
We deliver physical supplies to refinery customers or enter into commodity exchange transactions from time to time to protect from a decline in inventory valuation. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we had sales to two customers that comprised approximately 11.4 percent and 11.1 percent, respectively, of total consolidated revenues. We believe alternative market outlets for our commodity sales are readily available and a loss of any of these customers would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. See Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding credit risk.
Operating results for our crude oil marketing segment are sensitive to a number of factors. These factors include commodity location, grades of product, individual customer demand for grades or location of product, localized market price structures, availability of transportation facilities, actual delivery volumes that vary from expected quantities, and the timing and costs to deliver the commodity to the customer.

Title: FERC Regulation
  The VEX Pipeline System, which we acquired in 2020, is regulated by the FERC as a common carrier interstate pipeline under the Interstate Commerce Act (“ICA”), the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and related rules and orders. The ICA and its implementing regulations give the FERC authority to regulate the rates charged for service on interstate common carrier pipelines and generally require the rates and practices of interstate liquids pipelines to be just, reasonable, not unduly discriminatory and not unduly preferential. The ICA also requires tariffs that set forth the rates a common carrier pipeline charges for providing transportation services on its interstate common carrier liquids pipelines, as well as the rules and regulations governing these services, to be maintained on file with the FERC and posted publicly. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 and its implementing regulations allow interstate common carrier liquids pipelines to annually index their rates up to a prescribed ceiling level and require that such pipelines index their rates down to the prescribed ceiling level if the index is negative. In addition, the FERC retains cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates as alternatives to the indexing approach. The ICA also permits interested parties to challenge new or changed rates and gives the FERC the authority to change rates and order refunds.
Changes in the FERC’s methodologies for approving rates could adversely affect us. In addition, challenges to our regulated rates could be filed with the FERC and future decisions by the FERC regarding our regulated rates could adversely affect our cash flows. We believe the transportation rates currently charged by our interstate liquids pipeline is in accordance with the ICA and applicable FERC regulations. However, we cannot predict the rates we will be allowed to charge in the future for transportation services by such pipeline.

Title: Pipeline Safety
  We are subject to regulation by the DOT as authorized under various provisions of Title 49 of the United States Code and comparable state statutes relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of our pipeline facilities. Among other things, these statutes also require companies that own or operate pipelines to permit access to and copying of pertinent records, file certain reports and provide other information as required by the U.S. Secretary of Transportation. The DOT regulates natural gas and hazardous liquids pipelines through its Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”). PHMSA continues to implement and enforce these rules and has discretion to assess significant fines should non-compliance be determined.
The development and/or implementation of more stringent requirements pursuant to DOT regulations, as well as any implementation of the PHMSA rules thereunder or reinterpretation of guidance by PHMSA or any state agencies with respect thereto, may result in us incurring significant and unanticipated expenditures to comply with such standards. Until any such proposed regulations or guidance are finalized or issued, the impact on our operations, if any, cannot be known.

Title: Regulatory Status and Potential Environmental Liability
  Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including those described above, as well as associated permitting and licensing requirements. We regard compliance with applicable environmental regulations as a critical component of our overall operation, and devote significant attention to providing quality service and products to our customers, protecting the health and safety of our employees, and protecting our facilities from damage.
We have, where appropriate, implemented operating procedures at each of our facilities designed to assure compliance with environmental laws and regulation. However, given the nature of our business, we are subject to environmental risks, and the possibility remains that our ownership of our facilities and our operations and activities could result in civil or criminal enforcement and public as well as private actions against us, which may necessitate or generate mandatory cleanup activities, revocation of required permits or licenses, denial of application for future permits, and/or significant fines, penalties or damages, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors ” for further discussion.

Title: Human Capital Resources
  Title: General
  Our business strategy and ability to serve customers relies on employing talented professionals and attracting, training, developing and retaining a skilled workforce.
There is substantial competition for qualified truck drivers in the trucking industry. Recruitment, training, and retention of a professional driver workforce is essential to our continued growth and fulfillment of customer needs. We hire qualified professional drivers who hold a valid commercial driver’s license, satisfy applicable federal and state safety performance and measurement requirements, and meet our hiring criteria. These guidelines relate primarily to safety history, road test evaluations, and various other evaluations, which include physical examinations and mandatory drug and alcohol testing. We provide comfortable, late model equipment, encourage direct communication with management, pay competitive wages and benefits, and offer other incentives intended to encourage driver safety, retention and long-term employment. Prior to being released for individual duty, each new hire is required to undergo a mandatory training and evaluation period by a certified driver trainer/instructor. The length of this training period will be dependent on experience and the new hire adaptation to company policies and procedures.

Title: Employees
  At December 31, 2023, we employed 741 persons, of which 485, or 65 percent, were truck drivers. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory, and none of our employees are subject to union contracts or part of a collective bargaining unit.

Title: Independent Contractors
  In addition to company drivers, we enter into contracts with independent contractors, who provide a tractor and a driver and are responsible for all operating expenses in exchange for an agreed upon fee structure. At December 31, 2023, we had 100 independent contractor operated tractors in our transportation and logistics and repurposing segments, which comprised approximately 17 percent of our professional truck driving fleet.

Title: Health and Safety
  Safety is one of our guiding principles as we are committed to providing our employees a safe working environment. We have implemented safety programs and management practices to promote a culture of safety. We are continuously working toward maintaining a strong safety culture to emphasize the importance of our employees’ role in identifying, mitigating and communicating safety risks.
In light of the current COVID-19 pandemic, we have updated and implemented our pandemic plan to ensure the continuation of safe and reliable service to customers and to maintain the safety of our employees, as well as to incorporate any new governmental guidance and rules and regulations regarding workplace safety. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been deemed an essential entity by virtue of the transportation services we provide.

Title: Item 1A. Risk Factors .
  An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. If any of the following key risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In any such circumstance and others described below, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.

Title: Risk Related to our Business
  Title: Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could negatively affect our operations and limit our growth.
  There is substantial competition for qualified personnel, particularly drivers, in the trucking industry. We operate in geographic areas where there is currently a shortage of drivers. Regulatory requirements, including electronic logging, and an improving U.S. jobs market, could continue to reduce the number of eligible drivers in our markets. Any shortage of drivers could result in temporary under-utilization of our equipment, difficulty in meeting our customers’ demands and increased compensation levels, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A loss of qualified drivers could lead to an increased frequency in the number of accidents, potential claims exposure and, indirectly, insurance costs.
Difficulty in attracting qualified drivers could also require us to limit our growth. Our strategy is to grow in part by expanding existing customer relationships into new markets. However, we may have difficulty finding qualified drivers on a timely basis when presented with new customer opportunities, which could result in our inability to accept or service this business or could require us to increase the wages we pay in order to attract drivers. If we are unable to hire qualified drivers to service business opportunities in new markets, we may have to temporarily send drivers from existing terminals to those new markets, causing us to incur significant costs relating to out-of-town driver pay and expenses. In making acquisitions and converting private fleets, some of the drivers in those fleets may not meet our standards, which would require us to find qualified drivers to replace them. If we are unable to find and retain such qualified drivers on terms acceptable to us, we may be forced to forgo opportunities to expand or maintain our business.

Title: Our business is dependent on the ability to obtain trade and other credit .
  Our future development and growth depends, in part, on our ability to successfully obtain credit from suppliers and other parties. We rely on trade credit arrangements as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flow, our revolving line of credit or letters of credit. If global financial markets and economic conditions disrupt and reduce stability in general, and the solvency of creditors specifically, the availability of funding from credit markets would be reduced as many lenders and institutional investors would enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on terms similar to current debt or, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. These issues coupled with weak economic conditions would make it more difficult for us, our suppliers and our customers to obtain funding. If we are unable to obtain trade or other forms of credit on reasonable and competitive terms, the ability to continue our marketing businesses, pursue improvements, and continue future growth will be limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain future credit arrangements on commercially reasonable terms.

Title: Item 1C. Cybersecurity .
  We operate in the logistics and crude oil distribution sector, which is subject to various cybersecurity risks from cybersecurity threats that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations, cash flows or reputation.
While we have not experienced material cybersecurity threats or incidents, or threats or incidents that are reasonably likely to materially affect us, there can be no guarantee that we will not be the subject of future successful attacks, threats or incidents. Information on cybersecurity risks and threats we face can be found in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors —“Cyber-attacks or other disruptions to our information technology systems could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, fine or harm to our competitive position”.
Our business depends on the availability, reliability and security of our information systems, networks, data, and intellectual property. Any disruption, compromise, or breach of our systems or data due to a cybersecurity threat or incident could adversely affect our operations, physical assets and infrastructure, customer service, product development and competitive position. They may also result in a breach of our contractual obligations or legal duties to protect the privacy and confidentiality of our stakeholders. Such a breach could expose us to business interruption, lost revenue, ransom payments, remediation costs, liabilities to affected parties, cybersecurity protection costs, lost assets, litigation, regulatory scrutiny and actions, reputational harm, customer dissatisfaction, harm to our relationships, or loss of market share.


