Title: PART I
  Title: Item 1. Business.
  Title: General
  Howmet Aerospace Inc. (formerly known as Arconic Inc.) is a Delaware corporation with its principal office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and the successor to Arconic Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1888 and formerly known as Alcoa Inc. In this report, unless the context otherwise requires, “Howmet”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our” refer to Howmet Aerospace Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The Company’s Internet address is http://www.howmet.com. Howmet makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company’s website is included in this annual report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. The information on, or accessible through, the Company’s website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this annual report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at http://www.sec.gov.

Title: Background
  As described below, Howmet Aerospace Inc. was previously named Arconic Inc. and, prior to that, Alcoa Inc.

Title: The Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction.
  On April 1, 2020, Arconic Inc. separated its businesses (the “Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction”) into two independent, publicly traded companies: Howmet Aerospace Inc. (the new name for Arconic Inc.) and Arconic Corporation. Following this separation, Howmet retained the Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures, and Forged Wheels businesses; and its prior Rolled Products, Aluminum Extrusions, and Building and Construction Systems businesses were spun-off to Arconic Corporation. In connection with the Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction, Howmet and Arconic Corporation entered into several agreements that govern their post-separation relationship.

Title: The 2017 Reincorporation in Delaware.
  On December 31, 2017, Arconic Inc., then a Pennsylvania corporation, changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from Pennsylvania to Delaware.

Title: The Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction.
  On November 1, 2016, Alcoa Inc. completed the separation of its business (the “Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction”) into two independent, publicly traded companies: Arconic Inc. (the new name for Alcoa Inc., which, through the transactions described above, later became Howmet Aerospace Inc.) and Alcoa Corporation. Following this separation, the Company retained the Engineered Products and Solutions, Global Rolled Products, and Transportation and Construction Solutions businesses; and its previous Alumina and Primary Metals businesses, rolling mill operations in Warrick, Indiana and 25.1% interest in the Ma’aden Rolling Company were spun-off to Alcoa Corporation. In connection with the Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction, the two companies entered into several agreements that govern their post-separation relationship.

Title: Overview
  Howmet is a leading global provider of advanced engineered solutions for the aerospace and transportation industries. The Company’s primary businesses focus on jet engine components, aerospace fastening systems, and airframe structural components necessary for mission-critical performance and efficiency in aerospace and defense applications, as well as forged aluminum wheels for commercial transportation. Howmet’s technological capabilities support the innovation and growth of next-generation aerospace programs. Its differentiated technologies enable lighter, more fuel-efficient aircraft and commercial trucks to operate with a lower carbon footprint and support more sustainable air and ground transportation.
Howmet is a global company operating in 20 countries. Based upon the country where the point of shipment occurred, North America and Europe generated 70% and 23%, respectively, of Howmet’s sales in 2023. In addition, Howmet has operating activities in numerous countries and regions outside of North America and Europe, including China and Japan. 1

Title: Description of the Business
  The Company produces products that are used primarily in the aerospace (commercial and defense), commercial transportation, and industrial and other markets. Howmet seeks to provide its customers with innovative solutions through offering differentiated products such as airfoils with advanced cooling and coatings for extreme temperature applications; specially-designed fasteners for lightweight composite airframe construction, reduced assembly costs, and lightning strike protection; and lightweight aluminum commercial wheels. Its products and solutions include investment castings for jet engines and industrial gas turbines (nickel superalloys, titanium, and aluminum), including airfoils and structural parts; seamless rolled rings for jet engines (mostly nickel superalloys); fastening systems for aerospace, industrial and commercial transportation applications (titanium, steel, and nickel superalloys); forged jet engine components (e.g., jet engine disks); machined and forged aircraft parts (titanium and aluminum); and forged aluminum commercial vehicle wheels, all of which are sold directly to customers and/or through distributors.

Title: Aerospace (Commercial and Defense) Market.
  Howmet’s largest market is aerospace, which represented approximately 64% of the Company’s revenue in 2023. The Company produces a range of high performance multi-materials, highly engineered products, and vertically integrated machined solutions for aero engines and airframe structures, ranging from investment castings, advanced coatings, seamless rings, forgings, titanium extrusions, and titanium mill products, to fasteners that hold aircraft together. Wingtip to wingtip, nose to tail, Howmet can produce more than 90% of all structural and rotating aero engine components. Modernization of the commercial and defense platforms is driven by an array of challenging performance requirements. With its precision engineering, materials science expertise, and advanced manufacturing processes, Howmet aims to help its customers achieve greater fuel economies, reduced emissions, passenger comfort, and maintenance efficiencies.

Title: Commercial Transportation Market
  . The commercial transportation market represented approximately 21% of the Company’s revenue in 2023. The Company invented the forged aluminum truck wheel in 1948, and continues to advance technology to deliver breakthrough solutions that make trucks and buses lighter, more fuel efficient and sharper-looking. Howmet’s forged aluminum wheels are a leading choice for commercial trucks and mass transportation vehicles because they can reduce weight and save fuel. The strength of the Company’s rivets, bolts and fasteners offers another light-weighting solution that delivers performance.

Title: Industrial and Other Markets.
  Industrial and other markets include industrial gas turbines, oil and gas, and other industrials, which represented approximately 15% of the Company’s revenue in 2023.
Howmet has four reportable segments, which are organized by product on a worldwide basis: Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures and Forged Wheels.

Title: Engine Products
  Engine Products utilizes advanced designs and techniques to support next-generation engine programs and produces components primarily for aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines, including airfoils and seamless rolled rings. Engine Products produces rotating parts as well as structural parts. Engine Products principally serves the commercial and defense aerospace, industrial gas turbine, and oil and gas markets.

Title: Fastening Systems
  Fastening Systems produces aerospace and industrial fastening systems as well as commercial transportation fasteners and installation tools . In addition to highly engineered aerospace fasteners with a broad range of fastening systems, the segment also supplies the commercial transportation, renewable, and material handling industries. The business’s high-tech, multi-material fastening systems are found nose to tail on commercial and military aircraft, as well as on jet engines, industrial gas turbines, commercial transportation vehicles, wind turbines, solar power systems, and construction and industrial equipment .

Title: Engineered Structures
  Engineered Structures produces titanium ingots and mill products for aerospace and defense applications and is vertically integrated to produce titanium forgings, extrusions, forming and machining services for airframe, wing, aero-engine, and landing gear components. Engineered Structures also produces aluminum forgings, nickel forgings, and aluminum machined components, and assemblies for aerospace and defense applications. The principal markets served by Engineered Structures are commercial aerospace, defense aerospace, and land and sea defense.

Title: Forged Wheels
  Forged Wheels manufactures forged aluminum wheels for trucks, buses, and trailers and related products for the global commercial transportation market. The Company’s portfolio of wheels is sold under the product brand name Alcoa® Wheels, which are five times stronger and 47% lighter than steel wheels. The Ultra ONE® Wheel with MagnaForce® alloy is the lightest portfolio of wheels on the market. The Company’s proprietary Dura-Bright® surface treatment is unmatched in appearance and corrosion protection. 2
For additional discussion of each segment's business, see “Results of Operations—Segment Information” in (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and to the Consolidated Financial Statements in .

Title: Sales by Market and Significant Customer Revenue
  Sales by market for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, were:
In 2023, General Electric Company and RTX Corporation represented approximately 12% and 9% , respectively, of the Company’s third-party sales. The loss of any such significant customer could have a material adverse effect on such businesses. See (Risk Factors). 3

Title: The Company's Principal Facilities (1)
  4

Title: Country Facility Location Segment Products
  United States Tucson, AZ (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Carson, CA (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners City of Industry, CA (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Fontana, CA Engine Products Rings Fullerton, CA (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Rancho Cucamonga, CA Engine Products Rings Torrance, CA Fastening Systems Fasteners Branford, CT Engine Products Aerospace Coatings Winsted, CT Engine Products Aerospace Machining Savannah, GA Engineered Structures Forgings, Disks La Porte, IN Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Whitehall, MI Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Coatings, Titanium Alloy and Specialty Products Washington, MO Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products Big Lake, MN Engineered Structures Aerospace Machining New Brighton, MN Engineered Structures Aerospace Machining Dover, NJ Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy Kingston, NY (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Rochester, NY Engine Products Rings Barberton, OH Forged Wheels Wheels Machining Canton, OH (2) Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products Cleveland, OH Engine Products; Engineered Structures; Forged Wheels Forgings, Investment Casting Equipment, and Aerospace Components Niles, OH Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products Morristown, TN (2) Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Ceramic Products Houston, TX (2) Engineered Structures Extrusions Waco, TX (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Wichita Falls, TX Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Hampton, VA (2) Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Martinsville, VA Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products
(1) Principal facilities are listed by location, with certain locations having more than one facility. The list in the above table does not include 18 locations that serve as sales and administrative offices, distribution centers or warehouses.
(2) Leased property or partially leased property.

Title: Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
  Important raw materials purchased in 2023 for each of the Company’s reportable segments are listed below. Engine Products Fastening Systems Engineered Structures Forged Wheels Ceramics Aluminum Alloys Energy Energy Cobalt Energy Nickel Alloys Primary and Scrap Aluminum Energy Nickel Alloys and Stainless Steels Primary Aluminum Nickel Steels Titanium Scrap Platinum Titanium Alloys Titanium Sponge Titanium Vanadium Alloys
Generally, raw materials are purchased from third-party suppliers under competitively priced supply contracts or bidding arrangements. The Company believes that the raw materials necessary to its business are and will continue to be available.

Title: Patents, Trade Secrets and Trademarks
  The Company believes that its domestic and international patent, trade secret and trademark assets provide it with a significant competitive advantage. The Company’s rights under its patents, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the Company as a whole and, to varying degrees, important to each business segment. The patents owned by Howmet generally concern particular products, manufacturing equipment or techniques. Howmet’s business as a whole is not, however, materially dependent on any single patent, trade secret or trademark. As a result of product development and technological advancement, the Company continues to pursue patent protection in jurisdictions throughout the world. As of the end of 2023, the Company’s worldwide patent portfolio consists of approximately 940 granted patents and 215 pending patent applications.
The Company also has a significant number of trade secrets, mostly regarding manufacturing processes and material compositions that give many of its businesses important advantages in their markets. The Company continues to strive to improve those processes and generate new material compositions that provide additional benefits. With respect to domestic and international registered trademarks, the Company has many that have significant recognition within the markets that are served. Examples include the name Howmet ® metal castings, Huck ® fasteners, and Dura-Bright ® wheels with easy-clean surface treatments. A significant trademark filing campaign for the names “Howmet” and “Howmet Aerospace” along with its “H” logo was initiated in 2019, in support of the corporate launch of Howmet Aerospace Inc. As of the end of 2023, the Company’s worldwide trademark portfolio consists of approximately 1,470 registered trademarks and 116 pending trademark applications. The Company’s rights under its trademarks are important to the Company as a whole and, to varying degrees, important to each business segment.

Title: Competitive Conditions
  The Company’s segments - Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures, and Forged Wheels - are subject to substantial and intense competition in the markets they serve. Although Howmet believes its advanced technology, manufacturing processes and experience provide advantages to Howmet’s customers, such as high quality and superior mechanical properties that meet the Company’s customers’ most stringent requirements, many of the products Howmet makes can be produced by competitors using similar types of manufacturing processes as well as alternative forms of manufacturing. Despite intense competition, Howmet continues as a market leader in most of its principal markets. We believe that factors such as Howmet’s technological expertise, state-of-the-art capabilities, capacity, quality, engaged employees and long-standing customer relationships enable the Company to maintain its competitive position.
Principal competitors include Berkshire Hathaway Inc., through its 2016 acquisition of Precision Castparts Corporation and subsidiaries, for titanium and titanium-based alloys, precision forgings, seamless rolled rings, investment castings, including airfoils, and aerospace fasteners; VSMPO (Russia) for titanium and titanium-based alloys and precision forgings; Allegheny Technologies, Inc.’s High-Performance Materials & Components segment for titanium and titanium-based alloys and precision forgings; Lisi Aerospace (France) for aerospace fasteners; and Aubert & Duval (part of Eramet Group in France) for precision forgings. Other competitors include Doncasters Group Ltd. (U.K.) and Consolidated Precision Products Corp. (owned by Warburg Pincus and Berkshire Partners) for investment castings; Weber Metals (part of Otto Fuchs) for precision forgings; and Forgital and Frisa (Mexico) for seamless rings.
Forged Wheels competes against aluminum and steel wheel suppliers in the commercial transportation industry under the product brand name Alcoa ® Wheels for the major regions that it serves (North America, Europe, Japan, China, South America, and Australia). Its larger aluminum wheel competitors are Accuride Corporation, Speedline (member of the Ronal Group), Nippon Steel Corporation, Dicastal, Alux, and Wheels India Limited. 6
In recent years, Forged Wheels has seen an increase in the number of aluminum wheel suppliers (both forged and cast aluminum wheels) from China, Taiwan, India and South Korea attempting to penetrate the global commercial transportation market.
Several of Howmet’s largest customers have captive superalloy furnaces for producing airfoil investment castings for their own use. Many other companies around the world also produce superalloy investment castings, and some of these companies currently compete with Howmet in the aerospace and other markets, while others are capable of competing with the Company should they choose to do so.
International competition in the investment castings, fasteners, rings and forgings markets may also increase in the future as a result of strategic alliances among engine original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), aero-structure prime contractors, and overseas companies, especially in developing markets, particularly where “offset” or “local content” requirements create purchase obligations with respect to products manufactured in or directed to a particular country.

Title: Government Regulations and Environmental Matters
  Our operations and activities are global and are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those relating to the environment. In 2023, compliance with these laws, rules and regulations did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. Additionally, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2024. For a discussion of the risks associated with certain applicable laws and regulations, see “Risk Factors.” Information relating to environmental matters is included in to the Consolidated Financial Statements in under the caption “Environmental Matters.”

Title: Human Capital
  To attract, recruit, develop and retain world-class talent, the Company has created a culture that embraces diversity, drives inclusion, and empowers and engages our employees. Our Code of Conduct describes how we lead with integrity and work with one another while supporting our stakeholders. The Company provides competitive wages, benefits and terms of employment.
Attracting and recruiting candidates through workforce planning, increased hiring efficiency and effective onboarding has been a priority for the Company. New technology that increases the automation of job postings enables us to more widely disseminate our job vacancies to diverse partners and job boards, such as our campus recruitment platform that provides an ability to proactively reach a broad talent network of students and schools across the United States. To retain new talent, the Company offers an onboarding program to develop a sense of belonging, teamwork and productivity. In addition to existing training development programs for salaried employees, we extended training access using technology to our hourly employees during 2023. We believe providing employees with avenues to new skills contributes to increased motivation and engagement, resulting in higher employee retention.
The Company enables our employees to own their development and create rewarding careers that draw on their aptitudes and support their ambitions. Our development process framework provides tools and resources to identify career options, skills gaps and actions they can take to progress within the Company. Using a human capital management platform, employees can build a professional profile to share their career aspirations and learn new skills. This platform allows us to align employee goals and growth with the Company’s future business needs so that we can pinpoint potential successor candidates and build their readiness for their future roles. Our talent review and succession planning process is an ongoing priority and is sponsored and led by our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) with oversight by the Board of Directors.
We use a data-driven approach to track how our employees are progressing through our organization. We seek to identify high performers and support their development into potential future leaders, with a particular focus on providing equitable opportunities to individuals who are members of underrepresented groups. Our Employee Resource Groups, composed of the African Heritage, EurAsian Diversity & Inclusion, Latin+, Next Generation, Pride, Veterans, and Women’s Networks, continue to be fundamental to building our culture of inclusion. These networks provide colleagues with valuable support and advice, create development opportunities, and provide leadership with feedback that raises awareness of issues and challenges. The Company also provides diversity awareness training and resources. Our Board of Directors and Executive Leadership team review diversity, equity and inclusion activity on a regular basis.
Howmet’s strong health and safety culture empowers our employees and contractors to take personal responsibility for their actions and the safety of their coworkers. This culture is supported by internal policies, standards, rules and procedures that clearly articulate our stringent requirements for working safely in all of our worldwide facilities. The Company embeds annual health and safety goals and objectives into its operating plans to progress against our ultimate goal of zero incidents. We prioritize our risk management processes toward the prevention of fatality and serious injury.

Title: Employees
  Total worldwide employment at the end of 2023 was approximately 23,200 employees in 23 countries.
Approximately 3,400 employees, or 25% of the U.S. workforce, are represented by labor unions in the United States. Within the United States, there are eight collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates between Howmet and various labor unions. Of these eight, the largest workforce covered under a collective bargaining agreement is between Howmet and the United Autoworkers (“UAW”) at our Whitehall, Michigan location. This covers approximately 1,400 employees; the current agreement, which was ratified in 2023, expires on April 1, 2028. The second largest workforce covered under a collective bargaining agreement is between Howmet and the UAW at our Cleveland, Ohio location. This covers approximately 750 employees; the current agreement expires on April 28, 2024. The Cleveland location began negotiations with the UAW in February 2024. On a regional basis, collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates cover employees in Europe, North America, South America, and Asia. The Company believes that it has positive relationships with its employees and any respective labor union representatives.

Title: Executive Officers of the Registrant
  The names, ages, positions and areas of responsibility of the executive officers of the Company as of February 13, 2024 are listed below. The Company’s executive officers are annually elected or appointed to serve until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors (held in conjunction with the annual meeting of shareholders), except in the case of earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal.

Title: Michael N. Chanatry
  , 63, Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. Mr. Chanatry was initially elected Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer of Howmet effective May 16, 2018. Prior to joining Howmet, from 2015 to April 2018, he was Vice President of Supply Chain for General Electric’s Power Division. Mr. Chanatry served as General Manager of Supply Chain for General Electric Appliances from 2013 to 2015; and General Electric Aviation Systems from 2009 to 2013. Prior to his leadership roles at General Electric Power, General Electric Appliances and General Electric Aviation Systems, Mr. Chanatry held numerous positions within the General Electric Aviation & Aerospace divisions, as well as at Lockheed Martin from 1983 to 2009.

Title: Ken Giacobbe
  , 58, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Giacobbe was initially elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Howmet effective November 1, 2016. Mr. Giacobbe joined Howmet in 2004 as Vice President of Finance for Global Extruded Products, part of Alcoa Forgings and Extrusions. He then served as Vice President of Finance for the Company’s Building and Construction Systems business from 2008 until 2011. In 2011, he assumed the role of Group Controller for the Engineered Products and Solutions segment. From January 2013 until October 2016, Mr. Giacobbe served as Chief Financial Officer of the Engineered Products and Solutions segment. Before joining Howmet, Mr. Giacobbe held senior finance roles at Avaya and Lucent Technologies.

Title: Lola F. Lin
  , 49, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer and Secretary. Ms. Lin was initially elected Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of Howmet effective June 28, 2021. Prior to joining Howmet, she served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Airgas, Inc. from 2016 to May 2021. Prior to her time at Airgas, Ms. Lin held various legal roles at Air Liquide USA LLC from 2007 to 2016, including as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Prior to her roles at Airgas Inc. and Air Liquide, Ms. Lin held roles at Dell Inc., Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP and Locke Liddell & Sapp LLP.

Title: Neil E. Marchuk
  , 66, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer and Interim President, Engineered Structures. Mr. Marchuk was initially elected Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Howmet effective March 1, 2019. Prior to joining Howmet, from January 2016 to February 2019, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Adient, an automotive manufacturer. From July 2006 to May 2015, Mr. Marchuk was Executive Vice President of Human Resource at TRW Automotive, and served as TRW’s Vice President, Human Resources from September 2004 to July 2006. Prior to joining TRW, from December 2001 to August 2004, Mr. Marchuk was Director, Corporate Human Resources for E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company (“E.I. Du Pont”). From September 1999 to November 2001, Mr. Marchuk was Director, Global HR Delivery for E.I. Du Pont. From February 1999 to August 1999, Mr. Marchuk served E.I. Du Pont as its Global HR Director, Global Services Division.

Title: John C. Plant
  , 70, Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Plant was appointed Howmet’s Chief Executive Officer effective October 14, 2021, and was Co-Chief Executive Officer from April 2020 to October 2021. From February 2019 to April 2020, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Arconic Inc., as the Company was then known prior to its separation. He has served as chairman of Howmet's Board of Directors since October 2017 and as a member of the Board since February 2016. Mr. Plant previously served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of TRW Automotive from 2011 to 2015, and as its President and Chief Executive Officer from 2003 to 2011. TRW Automotive was acquired by ZF Friedrichshafen AG in May 2015. Mr. Plant was a co-member of the Chief Executive Office of TRW Inc. from 2001 to 2003 and an Executive Vice President of TRW from 1999 (when the company acquired Lucas Varity) to 2003. Prior to TRW, Mr. Plant was President of Lucas Varity Automotive and managing director of the Electrical and Electronics division from 1991 through 1997.

Title: Barbara L. Shultz
  , 50, Vice President and Controller. Ms. Shultz was initially elected Vice President and Controller of Howmet effective May 25, 2021. Ms. Shultz joined Howmet in 2005 and served in numerous financial accounting positions until 2012 when she was appointed Director of Finance for the Company’s Alcoa Wheel and Transportation Products business. She then served as Director of Compliance for the Company’s then Structures business from July 2015 to February 2019, Director of Compliance from February 2019 to June 2020, and Assistant Controller from June 2020 to May 2021. Prior to joining Howmet, Ms. Shultz held several roles at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP from 1995 to 2005. 9

Title: Item 1A. Risk Factors.
  Howmet’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows, including causing its actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. The following list of risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Howmet or that Howmet currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect the Company materially in future periods.

Title: Risks Related to Our Business and Operations
  Title: The markets for Howmet’s products are cyclical, and such markets and Howmet’s operations are influenced by a number of factors, including global economic conditions.
  Howmet is subject to cyclical fluctuations in global economic conditions and lightweight metals end-use markets. Howmet sells many products to industries that are cyclical, such as the aerospace and commercial transportation industries, and the demand for our products is sensitive to, and quickly impacted by, demand for the finished goods manufactured by our customers in these industries, which may change as a result of changes in regional or worldwide economies, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation, energy prices or other factors beyond our control. In particular, Howmet derives a significant portion of our revenue from products sold to the aerospace industry, which is cyclical and reflective of changes in the general economy. The commercial aerospace industry is historically driven by the demand from commercial airlines for new aircraft and spare parts. Demand for commercial aircraft and spare parts is influenced by airline industry profitability, trends in airline passenger traffic domestically and globally, the state of U.S., regional and world economies, the ability of aircraft purchasers to obtain required financing and numerous other factors. Changes and uncertainties in the timing and level of future aircraft production by OEMs may cause our future results to differ from prior periods due to changes in the Company’s product mix. The defense aerospace cycle is highly dependent on U.S. and foreign government funding. It is also impacted by the effects of terrorism, a changing global geopolitical environment, U.S. foreign policy, whether older military aircraft are retired, and technological improvements to new engines and airframes. The demand for Howmet’s commercial transportation products is driven by the number of vehicles produced by commercial transportation manufacturers. Commercial transportation sales and production are affected by many factors, including the age of the vehicle fleet, labor relations issues, fuel prices, regulatory requirements, government initiatives, trade agreements, and levels of competition.
The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine has impacted global energy markets, particularly in Europe, leading to high volatility and increasing prices for crude oil, natural gas and other energy supplies. Higher energy costs result in increases in operating expenses at our manufacturing facilities, in the expense of shipping raw materials to our facilities, and in the expense of shipping products to our customers. The costs of certain raw materials (including, but not limited to, nickel, titanium, aluminum, cobalt, and rhenium) necessary for the manufacture of Howmet’s products and other manufacturing and operating costs are influenced by market forces and governmental constraints, including inflation, supply and demand, and shortages, and could be further influenced by export limits, sanctions, new or increased import duties, and countervailing or anti-dumping duties. For example, as the Russia-Ukraine conflict continues, global titanium prices may continue to fluctuate or increase. Our customers’ failure to return titanium revert (reusable scrap) to Howmet can result in an increase of the amount of titanium purchased at inflated costs. Recent high levels of inflation worldwide and in the United States has resulted in an increase in the costs of materials and labor. While we generally attempt to pass along higher raw material and energy costs to our customers through contractual agreements in the form of price increases, there can be a delay between an increase in our costs and our ability to increase the prices of our products. Additionally, we may not be able to increase the prices of our products due to competitive pricing pressure and other factors. If the Company is unable to offset significant cost increases through customer price increases, productivity improvements, cost reduction or other programs, Howmet’s business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Howmet is unable to predict the future course of industry variables, the strength of the U.S., regional or global economies, or the effects of government actions. Negative economic conditions, such as a major economic downturn or recession, continued inflation, or disruptions in the financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on Howmet’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

Title: A material disruption of, or manufacturing difficulties at, Howmet’s manufacturing operations could adversely affect Howmet’s business.
  If Howmet’s operations, particularly one of its key manufacturing facilities, were to be disrupted, including because of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, theft, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes, labor shortages or other reasons, Howmet may be unable to effectively meet its obligations to, or demand from, its customers. In addition, the manufacture of many of Howmet’s products is a complex process. Manufacturing problems arising from equipment failure or malfunction, inadvertent failure to follow regulatory or customer specifications and procedures, including those related to quality or safety, and problems with raw materials could have 10
an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to fulfill orders or meet product quality or performance requirements, which may result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation, adversely impacting product demand and customer relationships. Interruptions in production capability could increase Howmet’s costs and reduce its sales, including causing the Company to incur costs for premium freight, make substantial capital expenditures, or purchase alternative material at higher costs to fulfill customer orders. Additionally, a delivery delay by us due to production interruptions could subject us to liability from customer claims that such delay resulted in losses to the customer. Furthermore, product manufacturing or performance issues could result in recalls, customer penalties, contract cancellation and product liability exposure in addition to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because of approval, license and qualification requirements applicable to manufacturers and/or their suppliers, sources of alternatives to mitigate manufacturing disruptions may not be readily available to Howmet or its customers.

Title: Howmet is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for materials and services essential to our operations, including raw materials, and supply chain disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business.
  Howmet has supply arrangements with suppliers for various materials and services, including raw materials. We maintain annual or long-term contracts for a majority of our supply requirements, and, for the remainder, we depend on spot purchases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew, or obtain replacements for, any of our long-term contracts when they expire on terms that are as favorable as our existing agreements, or at all. For certain raw materials and services, we depend on a number of limited source or sole source suppliers, such as for titanium sponge and specialized metal alloys. Supply constraints could impact our production or force us to purchase materials and other supplies from alternative sources, which may not be available in sufficient quantities or at prices that are favorable to us. Howmet could also have exposure if a key supplier is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of a necessary material on a timely basis. Several of our suppliers have had constraints on their ability to supply Howmet with its full requirements due to lack of capacity, labor shortages and/or material availability. If such constraints continue or escalate, it could result in an adverse impact on our business. Because of approval, license and qualification requirements applicable to manufacturers and/or their suppliers, sources of alternatives to mitigate supply disruptions may not be readily available to Howmet. Any delay in supply from these suppliers could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products. The availability and costs of certain raw materials necessary for the production of Howmet’s products may also be influenced by private or government entities, including as a result of changes in geopolitical conditions or regulatory requirements, labor relations between the producers and their work forces, and unstable governments in exporting nations. Any of the foregoing supply chain disruptions or those due to trade barriers, business continuity, quality, cyberattacks, transportation, delivery or logistics challenges, weather, natural disaster, war, or pandemic events could adversely affect Howmet’s business, results of operations or financial condition.

Title: Howmet’s business depends, in part, on its ability to successfully meet program demand, production targets and commitments.
  Howmet is currently under contract to supply components for a number of existing and new commercial, general aviation, military aircraft and aircraft engine programs. Many of these contracts contemplate production increases over the next several years. If Howmet fails to meet production targets and commitments, or encounters difficulty or unexpected costs in meeting such levels, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business, operating results or financial condition. Similarly, to the extent demand for our products increases rapidly and significantly in future periods, we may not be able to ramp up production quickly enough to meet the demand, which could result in lost opportunities for growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position.

Title: Failure to attract and retain a qualified workforce and key personnel or to provide adequate succession planning could adversely affect Howmet’s operations and competitiveness.
  Howmet’s global operations require qualified and skilled personnel with relevant industry and technical experience. Shortages in certain skills, in areas such as engineering, manufacturing and technology, and other labor market inadequacies have created more competition for talent. A sustained labor shortage, lack of skilled labor, increased turnover, labor inflation, or increase in general labor costs could lead to higher labor, recruiting or training costs to attract and retain personnel. If the Company fails to attract, train, develop and retain a global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business, our business and operations could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, the continuity of key personnel and the preservation of institutional knowledge are vital to the success of the Company’s growth and business strategy. The loss of key personnel could significantly harm Howmet’s business, and any unplanned turnover or failure to develop adequate succession plans for key positions could deplete the Company’s institutional knowledge base, result in loss of technical or other expertise, delay or impede the execution of the Company’s business plans and erode Howmet’s competitiveness.

Title: Howmet could be adversely affected by the loss of key customers or significant changes in the business or financial condition of its customers.
  Howmet has long-term contracts with a significant number of its customers, some of which are subject to renewal, renegotiation or re-pricing at periodic intervals or upon changes in competitive supply conditions. Howmet’s failure to successfully renew, 11
renegotiate or favorably re-price such agreements, or a material deterioration in or termination of these customer relationships, could result in a reduction or loss in customer revenue. Additionally, a significant downturn or deterioration in the business or financial condition or loss of a key customer supplied by Howmet could adversely affect Howmet’s financial results. Howmet’s customers may experience delays in the launch of new products, labor strikes, diminished liquidity or credit unavailability, weak demand for their products, decreases in production rates due to regulatory investigations or otherwise, supply chain constraints or other difficulties in their businesses. Howmet’s customers may also change their business strategies or modify their business relationships with Howmet, including to reduce the amount of Howmet’s products they purchase, to switch to alternative suppliers, or to enter into the markets themselves to compete with Howmet. If Howmet’s customers reduce, terminate or delay purchases from Howmet due to the foregoing factors or otherwise and Howmet is unsuccessful in enforcing its contract rights or replacing such business in whole or in part or replaces it with less profitable business, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.
Howmet’s products are used in a variety of military applications, including military aircraft. Although many of the military programs in which Howmet participates extend several years, changes in military strategy, policy and priorities, or reductions in defense spending, may affect current and future funding of these programs and could reduce the demand for Howmet’s products, which could adversely affect Howmet’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

Title: Information technology system failures, cyberattacks and security breaches may threaten the integrity of Howmet’s intellectual property and other sensitive information, disrupt its business operations, and result in reputational harm and other negative consequences having a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.
  Howmet’s information technology systems could be subject to damage or interruption from power outages; computer network and telecommunications failures; cyberattacks; catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism; and usage errors by employees. If Howmet’s information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and Howmet may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. Any material disruption in the Company’s information technology systems, or delays or difficulties in implementing or integrating new systems or enhancing current systems, could have an adverse effect on Howmet’s business, financial condition or results of operations.
Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyberattacks pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, as well as those of our customers, suppliers and other counterparties. The Company believes that it faces threats of cyberattacks due to the industries it serves, the locations of its operations, and its technological innovations. The Company has experienced cybersecurity attacks in the past, including breaches of its information technology systems in which information was taken, and may experience them in the future, potentially with more frequency or sophistication. Although past attacks did not result in known losses of any critical data or have a material impact on Howmet’s financial condition or results of operations, the scope and impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. While the Company continually works to safeguard its systems and mitigate potential risks, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity incidents that manipulate or improperly use the Company’s systems or networks, compromise confidential, personal or otherwise protected information, destroy or corrupt data, block access to its systems, or otherwise disrupt its operations. The occurrence of such events could negatively impact Howmet’s reputation and its competitive position and could result in litigation with third parties, regulatory action, loss of business, potential liability and increased remediation costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.

Title: Howmet faces significant competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability.
  As discussed in “Competitive Conditions” in (Business) of this report, the markets for Howmet’s products are highly competitive. Howmet’s competitors include a variety of both U.S. and non-U.S. companies in our product markets, which could include existing customers. New entrants in our markets, new product offerings, new and/or emerging technologies in the marketplace, or new facilities may compete with or replace Howmet products. The willingness of customers to accept alternative solutions for the products sold by Howmet, pricing pressure from competitors, and technological advancements or other developments by or affecting Howmet’s competitors or customers could adversely affect Howmet’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Howmet’s competitive position and future performance depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to develop and innovate products, deploy technology initiatives and implement advanced manufacturing technologies. While Howmet intends to continue to develop innovative new products and services, it may not be able to successfully differentiate its products or services from those of its competitors or achieve and maintain technological advantages.
In addition, Howmet may face increased competition due to industry consolidation. Companies that are strategic partners in some areas of Howmet’s business may acquire or form alliances with Howmet’s competitors, thereby reducing their business with Howmet. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors who are better able to obtain favorable terms from suppliers or who are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. Consolidation within Howmet’s customer base may result in customers who are better able to exert leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, or may lead to 12
reduced demand for Howmet’s products if a combined entity replaces Howmet with a Howmet competitor with which it had prior relationships. The result of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on Howmet’s business, operating results and financial condition.

Title: Howmet’s global operations expose Howmet to risks that could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the market price of its securities.
  Howmet has operations or activities in numerous countries and regions outside the United States, including Europe, Mexico, China, and Japan. As a result, Howmet’s global operations are affected by economic, political, legal, and other conditions in the United States and foreign countries in which Howmet does business, including (i) economic and commercial instability risks, including changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, such as those related to tariffs, sanctions and trade barriers, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations and repatriation of assets or earnings; (ii) geopolitical risks such as political instability, civil unrest, expropriation, nationalization of properties by a government, imposition of sanctions, and renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements; (iii) wars such as those in Ukraine and the Middle East, cyber threats, terrorist activities or other dangerous conditions; (iv) compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust and competition regulations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery and corruption laws, and laws concerning trade, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations, and the sanctions, regulations and embargoes administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control; (v) aggressive, selective or lax enforcement of laws and regulations by foreign governmental authorities; (vi) exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, as well as inflation, economic factors, and currency controls in the countries in which it operates; and (vii) major public health issues, such as an outbreak of a pandemic or epidemic. Although the effect of any of the foregoing factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect Howmet’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

Title: Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital Resources
  Title: A decline in Howmet’s financial performance or outlook could negatively impact its credit profile, its access to capital markets and its borrowing costs.
  A decline in the Company’s financial performance or outlook due to internal or external factors, such as macroeconomic conditions, a deterioration in the Company’s financial metrics or a contraction in the Company’s liquidity, could adversely affect the Company’s credit ratings and its access to the capital or credit markets on terms and conditions that the Company finds acceptable. A downgrade of Howmet’s credit ratings could result in negative consequences, including limiting its ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms, if at all, increasing borrowing costs and credit facility fees, triggering collateral postings, and adversely affecting the market price of Howmet securities. For information on our credit ratings, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Limitations on Howmet’s ability to access global capital markets, a reduction in Howmet’s liquidity or an increase in borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect Howmet’s ability to maintain or grow its business, which in turn may adversely affect its financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.

Title: An adverse decline in the liability discount rate, lower-than-expected investment return on pension assets and other factors could adversely affect Howmet’s results of operations or amount of pension funding contributions in future periods.
  Howmet’s results of operations may be negatively affected by the amount of expense Howmet records for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans, by reductions in the fair value of plan assets and by other factors. Howmet calculates income or expense for its plans using actuarial valuations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change due to changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions used by Howmet to estimate pension or other postretirement benefit income or expense for the following year are the discount rate applied to plan liabilities and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, Howmet is required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant charge to shareholders’ equity. For a discussion regarding how Howmet’s financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement benefits accounting policies, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and to the Consolidated Financial Statements in .
Adverse capital market conditions could result in reductions in the fair value of plan assets and increase the Company’s liabilities related to such plans. Additionally, unpredictable future declines in the discount rate or lower-than-expected investment returns on plan assets could lead to a decline in the plans’ funded status and result in higher than expected pension contributions. The foregoing factors may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.

Title: Dividends and share repurchases fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend on a number of factors.
  Share repurchases and the declaration of dividends fall within the discretion of Howmet’s Board of Directors, and the Board’s decision regarding such matters depends on many factors, including Howmet’s financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, covenants associated with certain of the Company’s debt obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the Board deems relevant. There can be no assurance that the Company will declare dividends or repurchase stock in the future in any particular amounts, or at all.

Title: Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters
  Title: Howmet may be exposed to significant legal proceedings, investigations or changes in U.S. federal, state or foreign law, regulation or policy.
  The manufacture and sale of our products expose Howmet to potential product liability, personal injury, property damage and related claims. In the event that a Howmet product fails to perform as expected, regardless of fault, or is used in an unexpected manner, and such failure or use results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, Howmet may be subject to product liability lawsuits and other claims, or may participate in a recall or other corrective action involving such product. In addition, if a Howmet product is perceived to be defective or unsafe, Howmet’s sales could decrease, its reputation could be adversely impacted and Howmet could be exposed to government investigations or regulatory enforcement actions. Howmet is also subject to a variety of global legal and regulatory compliance risks in connection with its business and products. These risks include, among other things, potential claims, class action lawsuits or compliance issues, including those relating to securities laws, employment laws, intellectual property rights, cyber, security and privacy, insurance, commercial matters, antitrust and competition, human rights, third-party relationships, ESG (including climate-related/sustainability and other) rules and regulations, supply chain operations and the manufacture and sale of products. An adverse outcome in one or more of proceedings or investigations, or unfavorable changes in laws, regulations or policies, or other contingencies that the Company cannot predict with certainty, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, including reputational harm, loss of customers and substantial monetary damages and/or non-monetary penalties. For additional information regarding the legal proceedings involving the Company, see to the Consolidated Financial Statements in .

Title: Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to comply with government contracting regulations.
  We derive a portion of our revenue from sales to U.S. and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject to various procurement laws and regulations and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance. New laws and regulations or changes to existing ones (including, but not limited to, those related to subcontracting, cybersecurity and specialty metals) can increase our risks and/or costs. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, increased pricing pressure or suspension from future government contracting. If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.

Title: Howmet may face challenges to its intellectual property rights which could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, business and competitive position.
  Howmet owns important intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. The Company’s intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining Howmet’s competitive position in a number of the markets that the Company serves. Howmet’s competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to Howmet’s proprietary technologies, or design around the patents Howmet owns or licenses. Despite its controls and safeguards, Howmet’s technology may be misappropriated by its employees, its competitors or other third parties. The pursuit of remedies for any misappropriation of Howmet intellectual property is expensive and the ultimate remedies may be deemed insufficient. Further, in jurisdictions where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of misappropriation of Howmet intellectual property increases, despite efforts the Company undertakes to protect it. Developments or assertions by or against Howmet relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect or enforce Howmet’s rights sufficiently, could adversely affect Howmet’s business and competitive position.

Title: Unanticipated changes in Howmet’s tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect Howmet’s future profitability.
  Howmet is subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Its domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Changes in applicable domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, including enactment of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Pillar 2 framework, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect the Company’s tax expense and profitability. Howmet’s tax expense includes estimates of additional tax that may be incurred for 14
tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions. The assumptions include assessments of future earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of its deferred tax assets. The Company’s future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of tax audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns or related litigation and continuing assessments of its tax exposures.

Title: Labor disputes and other employee relations issues could adversely affect Howmet’s business, financial condition or results of operations.
  A significant portion of Howmet’s employees are represented by labor unions in the United States and other countries under various collective bargaining agreements, each with varying durations and expiration dates. For more information, see “Employees” in (Business) of this report. Howmet may not be able to negotiate successor collective bargaining agreements upon expiration without a risk of labor disputes, including strikes or work stoppages, or we may be unable to renegotiate such contracts on favorable terms. Labor organizations may attempt to organize groups of additional employees from time to time, and potential changes in labor laws could make it easier for them to do so. Howmet may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to its business or collective bargaining agreements. If we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of labor disputes, strikes or other work stoppages, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.

Title: Howmet is exposed to environmental, health and safety risks and is subject to a broad range of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations which may result in substantial costs and liabilities.
  Howmet’s operations worldwide are subject to numerous complex and increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations, as well as participation in assessments and cleanups of sites, and internal voluntary programs, have been, and in the future could be, significant. Environmental matters for which Howmet may be liable may arise in the future at its present sites, at sites owned or operated by its predecessors or affiliates, at sites that it may acquire in the future, or at third-party sites used by Howmet, its predecessors or affiliates for material and waste handling and disposal. Compliance with health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, including remediation obligations, may impact Howmet’s results of operations or liquidity in a particular period.
In addition, the industrial activities conducted at Howmet’s facilities present a significant risk of injury or death to our employees or third parties that may be on site. Our operations are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies in the United States, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and regulation by foreign government entities abroad responsible for employee health and safety. Material liabilities relating to injury, death or other workers’ compensation claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition or result in negative publicity and/or significant reputational harm.

Title: Howmet may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, customer or supplier responses to such change.
  Increased concern over climate change has led to new and proposed legislative and regulatory initiatives, such as cap-and-trade systems and additional limits on emissions of greenhouse gases, which in turn may trigger customer decarbonization requirements. New or revised laws, regulations and policies in this area and customer decarbonization requirements could directly and indirectly affect Howmet and its customers and suppliers, including by increasing the costs of production or impacting demand for certain products, which could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, Howmet utilizes natural gas, electricity and other fuels to operate its facilities. Significant increased energy costs and/or costs to transition to renewable energy sources, as a result of new laws, such as carbon pricing or product energy efficiency requirements, or as a result of customer requirements, could be passed along to the Company and its customers and suppliers. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by the Company or its customers or suppliers.
Physical risks associated with climate change may result in an increase of the exposure to, and impact of, events with damage due to flooding, extreme winds and extreme precipitation for Howmet locations, suppliers or customers. Prolonged periods of drought may result in wildfires and/or restrictions on process water use. These climate-related impacts may have an adverse effect on production capacity of Howmet sites, suppliers and customers. These types of incidents could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Title: With respect to the various transaction agreements that the Company entered into in connection with its separation transactions, if the counterparties fail to meet their obligations or if we have material indemnification obligations under such agreements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.
  In connection with our separation transactions, we entered into various agreements with Arconic Corporation and Alcoa Corporation, including respective Separation and Distribution agreements pursuant to which Arconic Corporation and Alcoa 15
Corporation agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify those parties for certain liabilities. We rely on these parties to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If either party is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under its applicable agreements, we could incur operational difficulties and/or material losses. The indemnities that we are required to provide Alcoa Corporation and Arconic Corporation under these agreements are currently not material. If either Alcoa Corporation or Arconic Corporation, as applicable, is not able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations to us, we may be required to bear such losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Title: Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
  None.

Title: Item 1C. Cybersecurity
  Cybersecurity is a critical component of the Company’s overall enterprise risk management program. Howmet has implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology designed to protect our systems and data from cybersecurity threats. The Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”), through its Cybersecurity Committee, is actively engaged in overseeing and reviewing the Company’s cybersecurity programs and risk management. Although past cybersecurity incidents did not have a material impact on the Company, including our strategy, financial condition or results of operations, the scope and impact of any future cybersecurity threat or incident cannot be predicted. See (Risk Factors) for more information on how material cybersecurity incidents may impact the Company.
Howmet has implemented a multi-faceted cybersecurity risk management framework, which includes progressing toward achievement of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification to certify the Company’s compliance with certain cybersecurity standards published by the National Institute of Standards and Technology. We deploy and operate preventive and detective controls and processes to mitigate cybersecurity threats, including monitoring our network for known vulnerabilities and signs of unauthorized attempts to access our data and systems. Our approach includes conducting internal vulnerability assessments, external penetration testing and attack simulation. In addition, the Company subscribes to third-party managed security service providers that continuously monitor the Company’s systems to assist with early cybersecurity threat detection and protection. Howmet conducts cybersecurity risk assessments of key vendors and other counterparties for any potential risks. Risk-based action plans are further developed to take into account evolving threats, which result in recommendations for new protocols and infrastructure. The Company has a robust program of employee education on the prevention of unauthorized access to Company information and systems.
The Company's cybersecurity risk management is integrated in our overall risk management processes. Our enterprise risks, including cybersecurity risks, are reviewed on a biannual basis. The review involves participation and engagement by, among others, subject matter experts like the Company’s Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) and Chief Information Officer (“CIO”), the presidents of the Company’s business segments, and executive management. Mitigation plans are deployed across the Company with cross-functional collaboration as applicable. Enterprise risk management is reviewed with the Board annually.
The Cybersecurity Committee, which originated in 2015 as a dedicated cybersecurity subcommittee of the Audit Committee, assists the Board in its oversight of the Company’s cybersecurity programs and risks. Its responsibilities include reviewing the state of the Company’s cybersecurity, its strategy, policies, and procedures to mitigate cybersecurity risks, and any significant cybersecurity incidents. The Committee also considers the cybersecurity threat landscape and the impact of emerging cybersecurity developments and regulations that may affect Howmet. The Cybersecurity Committee currently comprises two members and meets at least quarterly with members of management, including the CISO and CIO. The Cybersecurity Committee may, from time to time, invite third-party advisors and experts as it deems appropriate. Pursuant to guidelines adopted by the Cybersecurity Committee, management is required to report immediately to the Chair of the Cybersecurity Committee upon the occurrence of certain cybersecurity incidents and ransomware demands. The Cybersecurity Committee reports to the full Board after each of its meetings and as needed regarding the cybersecurity risks, incidents and other matters reviewed and considered by the Committee. 16
The Company’s CISO leads management’s assessment, prevention and management of cybersecurity risks. The CISO reports to the CIO who has responsibility for the usability, implementation and management of our information and computing systems. Both bring to their roles extensive experience in information technology and cybersecurity:
• The Company’s CISO joined the Company in 2022. The CISO has over 20 years of experience in information technology, cybersecurity and physical security management, including as Cybersecurity Operations Director at United States Steel Corporation (2020-2022); Director, Global Information Security and Compliance at Kennametal, Inc. (2018-2020); and Global Chief Information Security Officer/HIPAA Security Officer at Westlake Chemical (2013-2017). The CISO holds a Bachelor of Sciences degree in Information Systems Management from Carlow University and a Master of Sciences degree in Information Systems from Robert Morris University, and is a Certified Systems Security Professional.
• The Company’s CIO joined the Company in 2021. The CIO has over 20 years of experience in information technology, including, most recently, as Vice President Global IT and Chief Information Officer at Varroc Lighting Systems (2018-2021) and Chief Information Officer at AM General LLC (2016-2018). The CIO holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree in Industrial Engineering from Universidad de Lima.
In the event of a potential material cybersecurity incident or ransomware demand, Howmet has adopted a policy to respond to such event, which includes protocols and procedures to, among other things, escalate the incident or demand, form a core cross-functional response leadership team (including the CISO and CIO) to assess severity, formulate response and remediation, and determine any required reporting or notifications. 17

Title: Item 2. Properties.
  Howmet’s principal office and corporate center is located at 201 Isabella Street, Suite 200, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15212-5872. In the second quarter of 2022, the Company sold this property and entered into a 12-year lease with the purchaser for a portion of the property.
Howmet leases some of its facilities; however, it is the opinion of management that the leases do not materially affect the continued use of the properties or the properties’ values.
Howmet believes that its facilities are suitable and adequate for its operations. Although no title examination of properties owned by Howmet has been made for the purpose of this report, the Company knows of no material defects in title to any such properties. See and to the Consolidated Financial Statements in of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Howmet has active plants and holdings in various geographic areas. See the table regarding the Company's principal facilities in (Business).

Title: Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
  In the ordinary course of its business, Howmet is involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential. For a discussion of legal proceedings, see to the Consolidated Financial Statements in of this Form 10-K.

Title: Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.
  Not applicable.