Title: PART I
  Title: ITEM 1. BUSINESS
  Title: General
  Unum Group, a Delaware general business corporation, and its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, which collectively with Unum Group we refer to as the Company, operate in the United States, the United Kingdom, Poland, and, to a limited extent, in certain other countries. The principal operating subsidiaries in the United States are Unum Life Insurance Company of America (Unum America), Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company (Provident), The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company (Paul Revere Life), Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company, Unum Insurance Company, Starmount Life Insurance Company (Starmount), in the United Kingdom, Unum Limited, and in Poland, Unum Zycie TUiR S.A. (Unum Poland). We are a leading provider of financial protection benefits in the United States and the United Kingdom. Our products include disability, life, accident, critical illness, dental and vision, and other related services. We market our products primarily through the workplace.
We have three principal operating business segments: Unum US, Unum International, and Colonial Life. Our other segments are the Closed Block and Corporate segments. These segments are discussed more fully under "Reporting Segments" included herein in this Item 1.

Title: Business Strategies
  The benefits we provide help the working world thrive throughout life's moments and protect people from the financial hardship of illness, injury, or loss of life. As a leading provider of employee benefits, we offer a broad portfolio of products and services through the workplace that provide support when it is needed most.
Specifically, we offer group, individual, voluntary, and dental and vision products as well as provide certain fee-based services. These products and services, which can be sold stand-alone or combined with other coverages, help employers of all sizes attract and retain the talented and capable workforce they need to succeed while protecting the incomes and livelihood of their employees. We believe employer-sponsored benefits are the most effective way to provide workers with access to information and options to protect their financial stability. Working people and their families, particularly those at lower and middle incomes, are perhaps the most vulnerable in today's economy yet are often overlooked by many providers of financial products and services. For many of these workers and families, employer-sponsored benefits are the primary defense against the potentially catastrophic financial impact of death, illness, or injury.
We have established a corporate culture consistent with the social value of our products and services. Because we see important links between the obligations we have to all of our stakeholders, we place a strong emphasis on operating with integrity and contributing to positive change in our communities. Accordingly, we are committed not only to meeting the needs of our customers who depend on us, but also to being accountable for our actions through sound and consistent business practices, a strong internal compliance program, a comprehensive risk management strategy, and an engaged employee workforce.
We believe our disciplined approach to providing financial protection products at the workplace puts us in a position of strength. The products and services we provide have never been more important to employers, employees, and their families. Our strategy remains centered on growing our core businesses through investing and transforming our operations and technology to anticipate and respond to the changing needs of the marketplace, driving enhanced customer experiences and expanding into new adjacent markets through meaningful partnerships and effective deployment of our capital across our portfolio.
We continue to analyze and employ strategies we believe will help us navigate the current environment and allow us to maintain financial flexibility to support the needs of our businesses while also allowing us to return capital to our shareholders. As we have seen in the current environment, we have substantial leverage to inflation and strong labor markets which generate wage and payroll growth. To the extent that our own costs increase as a result of wage inflation, we have the ability to adjust our prices on new and renewing business to reflect these higher costs.
Long-term, we believe that consistent operating results, combined with the implementation of strategic initiatives and the effective deployment of capital, will allow us to meet our financial objectives.

Title: Reporting Segments
  Our reporting segments are comprised of the following: Unum US, Unum International, Colonial Life, Closed Block, and Corporate. The percentage of consolidated premium income generated by each reporting segment for the year ended December 31, 2023 is as follows:
Financial information is provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.

Title: Unum US Segment
  Our Unum US segment is comprised of group disability, group life and accidental death and dismemberment, and supplemental and voluntary lines of business. The group disability line of business includes long-term and short-term disability, medical stop-loss, and fee-based service products. The supplemental and voluntary line of business includes voluntary benefits, individual disability, and dental and vision products. Unum US products are issued primarily by Unum America, Provident, Starmount, and Unum Insurance Company. These products are marketed through our field sales personnel who work in conjunction with independent brokers and consultants. Our market strategy for Unum US is to effectively deliver an integrated offering of employee benefit products in the group core market segment, which we define for Unum US as employee groups with fewer than 2,000 employees, the group large case market segment, and the supplemental and voluntary market segment.
The percentage of Unum US segment premium income generated by each product line during 2023 is as follows:

Title: Group Long-term and Short-term Disability
  We sell group long-term and short-term disability products to employers for the benefit of employees.
Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury. We offer services to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment. Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 65 and 70, or recovers from the disability. The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income. Also included in our long-term disability product line is our medical stop-loss product, which is designed to protect self-insured employers if their employees' medical claims exceed certain agreed upon thresholds.
Group short-term disability insurance generally provides coverage from loss of income due to injury or sickness for up to 26 weeks and is limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income. Benefits are typically effective after 0 to 30 days for accidents and after 7 to 30 days for sickness.
Our fee-based services include leave management and administrative services only (ASO) business. Leave management services provide administrative services on behalf of employers to ensure the protected leave eligibility and status for employees are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. ASO products provide administrative services regarding 4
claims processing and billing for self-insured customers for which the responsibility for funding claim payments remains with the customer.
Premiums for group long-term and short-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. In some cases, coverage for large employers will include retrospective experience rating provisions or will be underwritten on an experience-rated basis. Premiums for experience-rated group long-term and short-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client. Both group long-term and short-term disability are sold primarily on a basis permitting periodic repricing to address the underlying claims experience. Fees for our leave management services and ASO business are generally based on the number of covered employees and an agreed-upon per-employee, per-month rate. Premiums for our medical stop-loss product are generally based on the number of covered employees in self-insured employer groups and their estimated overall health risk plus provisions for administrative expenses, and profit.
We have defined underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount for our disability policies exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability. Our disability policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees. For new group policyholders, the usual rate guarantee is one to three years. For group policies being renewed, the rate guarantee is generally one year, but may be longer. The profitability of the policy depends on the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period. The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden. Our medical stop loss contracts are renewable on an annual basis and rates are not guaranteed beyond one year. There is no requirement for prospective medical stop loss insureds to submit evidence of insurability because coverage levels are determined for the group as a whole.
Profitability of group long-term and short-term disability insurance and our medical stop-loss product is affected by sales, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience, and many economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance. We routinely make pricing adjustments on our group long-term and short-term disability insurance products, when contractually permitted, which take into account emerging experience and external factors.

Title: Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment
  Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Group life consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the coverages frequently linked to employees' wages and includes a provision for waiver of premium, if disabled. Accidental death and dismemberment consists primarily of an additional benefit amount payable if death or severe injury is attributable to an accident.
Premiums are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Underwriting practices and rate guarantees are similar to those used for group disability products, and evidence of insurability is required for benefits in excess of a specified limit.
Profitability of group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Voluntary Benefits
  Voluntary benefits products are primarily sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace and include accident, disability, life, hospital indemnity, cancer, and critical illness. Products are issued on both a group and individual basis.
Premiums are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy on a simplified basis. Underwriting requirements may be waived for cases that meet certain criteria, including participation levels. Individual voluntary benefits products other than life insurance are offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to reprice in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval. Group voluntary benefits products are offered primarily on an optionally renewable basis which allows us to reprice or terminate in-force policies.
Profitability of voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Individual Disability
  Individual disability products are offered primarily to multi-life employer groups to supplement their group disability plans and may be funded by the employer, but the policy is owned by the employee and is portable. Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. The benefits, including the underlying group disability coverage, typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent of the insured's monthly earned income. We provide various options with respect to length of benefit periods, product features, and waiting periods before benefit payments begin, which permit tailoring of the multi-life plan to a specific employer's needs. We also market individual disability policies which include payments for the transfer of business ownership between partners and payments for business overhead expenses, also on a multi-life basis. Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.
Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, product features, industry, region, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own experience. Our underwriting rules, issue limits, and plan designs reflect risk and the financial circumstances of prospective insureds. Individuals in multi-life groups may be subject to limited medical underwriting. The majority of our individual disability policies are written on a noncancelable basis. Under a noncancelable policy, as long as the insured continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the policy's duration, we cannot cancel the policy or change the premium.
Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Dental and Vision
  Group dental and vision products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Our group dental products include a variety of insured and self-insured dental care plans including preferred provider organizations and scheduled reimbursement plans. Our group vision products provide coverage that includes a range of both in-network and out-of-network benefits for routine vision services offered either in conjunction with our dental product offerings or as stand-alone coverage.
Premiums for small case group dental and vision products are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus a provision for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Premiums for large employer groups are underwritten on an experience-rated basis.
Profitability of our dental and vision products is affected by persistency, claims experience, the level of administrative expenses, and to a lesser extent, investment returns.

Title: Unum International Segment
  Our Unum International segment includes our operations in the United Kingdom and Poland. Unum UK's business includes insurance for group long-term disability, group life, and supplemental lines of business which include dental, individual disability, and critical illness products. Unum Poland's business primarily includes insurance for individual and group life with accident and health riders. Unum International's products are sold primarily through field sales personnel and independent brokers and consultants. The market strategy for the segment is to offer benefits to employers and employees through the workplace, with a focus on the expansion of the number of employers and employees covered in our Unum UK business, and the growth of the existing Unum Poland business through the incorporation of our benefits and distribution expertise.
The percentage of Unum International segment premium income generated by each product line during 2023 is as follows:

Title: Unum UK Group Long-term Disability
  Group long-term disability products are sold to employers for the benefit of employees. Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury. Services are offered to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment. Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age or reaches the end of the limited period specified in the policy terms. The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.
Premiums for group long-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Some cases carry experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience-rated group long-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client. Policies are sold primarily on a basis permitting periodic repricing to address the underlying claims experience.
We have defined underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability. Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees. The usual rate guarantee is two years but may vary depending on circumstances. The profitability of the policy is dependent upon the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period. The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.
Profitability of group long-term disability insurance is affected by sales, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience. We routinely make pricing adjustments on our group insurance products, when contractually permitted, which take into account emerging experience and external factors.

Title: Unum UK Group Life
  Group life products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Group life consists of two types of products, a renewable term life insurance product and a group dependent life product. The renewable term life product provides a lump sum benefit to the beneficiary upon the death of an employee. The group dependent life product, which we discontinued offering to new customers in 2012, provides an annuity to the beneficiary upon the death of an employee. Both coverages are frequently linked to employees' wages. Premiums for group life are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for Unum UK group long-term disability products.
Profitability of group life is affected by sales, persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Unum UK Supplemental
  Supplemental products are sold to employers and groups of employees and include group critical illness and group dental products. Group critical illness products provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event. Group dental products generally provide fixed benefits based on specified treatments or a portion of the cost of the treatment. Beginning in 2022, supplemental products are no longer actively marketed to individual customers.
Premiums for group critical illness products are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for 7
Unum UK group long-term disability products. Premiums for group dental products are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses and profit, with minor pricing variation based on the number of covered employees in the group. Profitability of our supplemental products is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Unum Poland
  Unum Poland products, which include both individual and group life products, provide renewable term and whole life insurance with accident and health riders. Premiums are based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Profitability of our Unum Poland products is affected by persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Colonial Life Segment
  Our Colonial Life segment includes accident, sickness, and disability products, life products, and cancer and critical illness products. Products are issued primarily by Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company and marketed to employees, on both a group and an individual basis, at the workplace through an independent contractor agent sales force and brokers. Our market strategy for Colonial Life is to effectively deliver a broad set of voluntary products and services in the public sector market and in the commercial market, with a particular focus on the core commercial market segment, which we define for Colonial Life as accounts with fewer than 1,000 employees.
Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy on a simplified basis. Underwriting requirements may be waived for cases that meet certain criteria, including participation levels.
The percentage of Colonial Life segment premium income generated by each product line during 2023 is as follows:

Title: Accident, Sickness, and Disability
  The accident, sickness, and disability product line consists of short-term disability plans, accident-only plans providing benefits for injuries on a specified loss basis, and our dental and vision products. It also includes accident and health plans which cover events such as hospital admissions, confinement, and surgeries.
Premiums are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own experience and published industry tables. Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable which allows us to change premiums on a state by state basis. A small percentage of the policies are written on a group basis which are offered primarily on an optionally renewable basis which allows us to reprice or terminate in-force policies. Premiums for our dental and vision products are guaranteed renewable with standard industry rates that vary by age and region.
Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Life
  Life products are primarily comprised of universal life, whole life, and term life policies. We discontinued offering universal life policies in 2019.
Premiums are generally based on assumptions for mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own experience and published industry tables. Premiums for the individual whole life and term life products are guaranteed for the life of the contract. Premiums for the individual universal life products are flexible and may vary at the individual policyholder level. For the group term life products, we retain the right to change premiums at the account level based on the experience of the account. 8
Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Cancer and Critical Illness
  Cancer policies provide various benefits for the treatment of cancer including hospitalization, surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Critical illness policies provide a lump-sum benefit and/or fixed payments on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.
Premiums are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own experience and published industry tables. Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis. A small percentage of the policies are written on a group basis and are offered primarily on an optionally renewable basis which allows us to reprice or terminate in-force policies.
Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Closed Block Segment
  Our Closed Block segment consists of group and individual long-term care and other insurance products no longer actively marketed. Closed Block segment premium income for 2023 was comprised of approximately 76 percent group and individual long-term care and 24 percent other insurance products.

Title: Group and Individual Long-term Care
  We discontinued offering individual long-term care in 2009 and group long-term care in 2012. Group long-term care was previously offered to employers for the benefit of employees. Individual long-term care was previously marketed on a single-life customer basis.
Long-term care insurance pays a benefit upon the loss of two or more activities of daily living and the insured's requirement of standby assistance or cognitive impairment. Payment is generally made on an indemnity basis, regardless of expenses incurred, up to a lifetime maximum. Benefits begin after a waiting period, usually 90 days or less, and are generally paid for a period of three years, six years, or lifetime.
Our long-term care insurance was sold on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to reprice in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval. Premium rates for long-term care vary by age and are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Premium rate increases continue to be implemented where needed and where approved by state regulators. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.
Profitability is affected by premium rate increases, persistency, investment returns, mortality and other claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Title: Other
  Other insurance products not actively marketed include individual disability, group pension, individual life and corporate-owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, and other miscellaneous product lines. The majority of these products have been reinsured, with approximately 85 percent of reserves at December 31, 2023 ceded to other insurance companies.
In December 2020, we entered into the first phase of a reinsurance transaction to reinsure the majority of our Closed Block individual disability products to a third party. In March 2021, we completed the second phase of the reinsurance transaction to reinsure a portion of the remaining Closed Block individual disability business that was not ceded in December 2020. For further discussion on this reinsurance transaction, refer to "Reinsurance" herein in this Item 1, "Executive Summary" and "Segment Results" contained herein in Item 7, and Note 14 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8. 9

Title: Corporate Segment
  Our Corporate segment includes investment income on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate income and expenses not allocated to a line of business.

Title: Reinsurance
  In the normal course of business, we assume reinsurance from and cede reinsurance to other insurance companies. In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium or fee. We undertake reinsurance transactions for both risk management and capital management. If the assuming reinsurer in a reinsurance agreement is unable to meet its obligations, we remain contingently liable. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible. We evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers to whom we cede business and monitor concentration of credit risk to minimize our exposure. We may also require assets to be held in trust, letters of credit, or other acceptable collateral to support reinsurance recoverable balances. The collectability of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. Although we have controls to minimize our exposure, the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
In general, the maximum amount of life insurance risk retained by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries under group or individual life or group or individual accidental death and dismemberment policies during 2023 was $1 million per covered life per policy. The retention amount remains at $1 million for 2024. For Unum Limited life insurance risk, during 2023 we had reinsurance agreements which provided 75 percent quota share coverage up to £500 thousand per covered life for group dependent life benefits and 25 percent quota share coverage for group lump sum benefits, as well as 100 percent coverage per covered life above that amount. For Unum Limited, during 2024, we have reinsurance agreements which provide 20 percent quota share coverage for group lump sum benefits up to £500 thousand per covered life as well as 100 percent coverage per covered life above that amount. For Unum Limited in both 2023 and 2024, we have reinsured 100 percent of benefits in excess of £2 million for both group dependents and lump sum benefits.
In December 2020, we completed the first phase of a reinsurance transaction, pursuant to which Provident, Paul Revere Life, and Unum America, collectively referred to as "the ceding companies", each entered into separate reinsurance agreements with Commonwealth Annuity and Life Insurance Company (Commonwealth), a subsidiary of Global Atlantic Financial Group, to reinsure on a coinsurance basis effective as of July 1, 2020 approximately 75 percent of the Closed Block individual disability business, primarily direct business written by the ceding companies. In March 2021, we completed the second phase of the reinsurance transaction, pursuant to which the ceding companies and Commonwealth amended and restated their respective reinsurance agreements to reinsure on a coinsurance and modified coinsurance basis, effective as of January 1, 2021, a substantial portion of the remaining Closed Block individual disability business that was not ceded in December 2020, primarily business previously assumed by the ceding companies. Commonwealth established and will maintain collateralized trust accounts for the benefit of the ceding companies to secure its obligations under the reinsurance agreements.
Also in December 2020, Provident Life and Casualty Insurance Company (PLC), also a wholly-owned domestic insurance subsidiary of Unum Group, entered into an agreement with Commonwealth whereby PLC will provide a 12-year volatility cover to Commonwealth for the active life cohort (ALR cohort). On March 31, 2021, PLC and Commonwealth amended and restated this agreement to incorporate the ALR cohort related to the additional business that was reinsured between the ceding companies and Commonwealth as part of the second phase of the transaction. At the end of the 12-year coverage period, Commonwealth will retain the risk for the remaining incidence and claims risk on the ALR cohort of the ceded business. Under this volatility cover, annual settlements will be made equal to the difference between the actual and estimated cash flows and reserve changes during the year. Upon expiration of the 12-year period, a terminal settlement will be made based on the final reserves for the ALR cohort. Due to the nature of the volatility cover, the ALR cohort will be accounted for under the deposit method on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis.
We have global catastrophic reinsurance coverage which covers all Unum Group insurance companies and includes four layers of coverage to limit our exposure under life, accidental death and dismemberment, long-term care, and disability policies in regard to a catastrophic event. Each layer provides coverage for catastrophic events, including most acts of war and any type of terrorism, up to $1 million of coverage per person per policy for each U.S. and Poland line of covered business, and up to £2 million of coverage for each U.K. covered line of business. We have the following coverage for 2024, after a $150 million deductible:
In addition to the global catastrophic reinsurance coverage noted above, Unum Limited has additional catastrophic coverage via an arms-length, intercompany reinsurance agreement with Unum America, under similar terms as the global catastrophic treaties. Unum Limited has the following additional coverage for 2024, after a £80 million deductible:
Unum Poland had additional global catastrophic reinsurance coverage of up to 100 million zł per event, or up to 200 million zł for the year, with a maximum retention limit of 1.2 million zł in 2023. Insurable events excluded war, as well as nuclear, chemical, biological and other forms of terrorism. For 2024, Unum Poland has additional global catastrophic reinsurance coverage of up to 100 million zł per event, or up to 200 million zł for the year, with a maximum retention limit of 2.0 million zł. Insurable events include passive war, as well as nuclear, chemical, biological and other forms of terrorism.
Events may occur which limit or eliminate the availability of catastrophic reinsurance coverage in future years.
We have a quota share reinsurance agreement under which we cede certain blocks of Unum US group long-term disability claims. The agreement is on a combination coinsurance with funds withheld and modified coinsurance basis and provides 90 percent quota share reinsurance on the ceded claims. We also have five reinsurance agreements that collectively cede approximately 65 percent of Unum US group life risk up to our per person retention limit for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. These reinsurance agreements for Unum US group disability and group life allow us to more effectively manage capital in conformity with statutory accounting principles but do not meet insurance risk transfer in accordance with applicable GAAP and therefore are not accounted for as reinsurance in our consolidated GAAP financial statements.
We also cede 20 percent of the risk for certain blocks of recently issued Unum US individual disability policies, as well as some related claims development risk for a limited period of time. The agreement is on a non-proportional modified coinsurance basis with a provision for experience refunds, which we amended effective July 2023 to reduce the quota share from 30 percent to 20 percent.
Unum America cedes certain long-term care business to Fairwind Insurance Company (Fairwind), which is an affiliated captive reinsurance subsidiary (captive reinsurer) domiciled in the United States, with Unum Group as the ultimate parent. This captive reinsurer was established for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by Unum America in order to effectively manage risks in connection with this business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. On a consolidated reporting basis for Unum Group, financial statement impacts of our reinsurance arrangements with affiliates are eliminated in accordance with GAAP.
For further discussion of our reinsurance activities, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A; "Executive Summary," "Consolidated Operating Results," "Segment Results," and "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Available from 11
Subsidiaries" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1, 14, and 18 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.

Title: Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits
  The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report liabilities for future policy benefits to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies. These liabilities are the amounts which, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature. These laws specify that the liabilities shall not be less than liabilities calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates, and methods of valuation required for statutory accounting.
The liabilities for future policy benefits reported in our financial statements contained herein are calculated in conformity with GAAP and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and reported in the statutory financial statements of our insurance subsidiaries. These differences result from the use of mortality and morbidity tables and interest assumptions which we believe are more representative of the expected experience for these policies than those required for statutory accounting purposes and also result from differences in actuarial reserving methods.
The assumptions we use to calculate our liabilities are intended to represent an estimate of experience for the period that policy benefits are payable. Some of the key assumptions include the discount rate, the claim resolution rate, the claim incidence rate, and policyholder lapse and mortality. There are also some key assumptions that are applicable only to certain product lines. Cash flow assumptions are reviewed and updated, as needed, at least annually. Assumptions may be updated more frequently, if necessary, based on trending experience and future expectations. On a quarterly basis, cohort level cash flow measures are updated based on the emergence of actual experience.
The change in the liability for future policy benefits, at the original discount rate, as of the beginning of the period, resulting from changes in cash flow assumptions and resulting from the emergence of actual experience from expected experience, is reflected as the 'policy benefits - remeasurement loss (gain)' in the consolidated statements of income. The impact of all other changes in the liability for future policy benefits are reflected as policy benefits in the consolidated statements of income.
For further discussion of our liabilities for future policy benefits, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A, "Critical Accounting Estimates", and the discussion of segment operating results included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1 and 6 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.

Title: Investments
  Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results. We segment our invested assets into portfolios that support our various product lines. Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of our businesses and to manage interest rate risk. We seek to earn investment income while assuming risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to the constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations. Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our insurance products. Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities.
We may redistribute investments among our different lines of business or sell selected securities and reinvest the proceeds, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability portfolios. Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy. Cash flows from the in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current interest rate levels and at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate scenarios. These results enable us to assess the impact of projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates. Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. Although we test the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios as part of our modeling, the majority of our liabilities related to insurance contracts are not interest rate sensitive, and we therefore have minimal exposure to policy withdrawal risk. Our determination of investment strategy relies on long-term measures such as reserve adequacy analysis and the relationship between the portfolio yields supporting our various product lines and the 12
aggregate discount rate assumptions embedded in the reserves. We also use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and the risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A; "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of investments in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7; "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" herein in Item 7A; and Notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for information on our investments and derivative financial instruments.

Title: Ratings
  AM Best, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) are among the third parties that assign issuer credit ratings to Unum Group and financial strength ratings to our insurance subsidiaries. Issuer credit ratings reflect an agency's opinion of the overall financial capacity of a company to meet its senior debt obligations. Financial strength ratings are specific to each individual insurance subsidiary and reflect each rating agency's view of the overall financial strength (capital levels, earnings, growth, investments, business mix, operating performance, and market position) of the insuring entity and its ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. Both the issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings incorporate quantitative and qualitative analyses by rating agencies and are routinely reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.
Rating agencies assign an outlook statement of "positive," "negative," or "developing" to indicate an intermediate-term trend in credit fundamentals which could lead to a rating change. "Positive" means that a rating may be raised, "negative" means that a rating may be lowered, and "developing" means that a rating may be raised or lowered with equal probability. Alternatively, a rating may have a "stable" outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change.
"Credit watch" or "under review" highlights the potential direction of a short-term or long-term rating. It focuses on identifiable events and short-term trends that cause a rating to be placed under heightened surveillance by a rating agency. Events that may trigger this action include mergers, acquisitions, recapitalizations, regulatory actions, criteria changes, or operating developments. Ratings may be placed on credit watch or under review when an event or a change in an expected trend occurs and additional information is needed to evaluate the current rating level. This status does not mean that a rating change is inevitable, and ratings may change without first being placed on a watch list. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Ratings" contained herein in Item 7 for our current outlook, issuer credit, and financial strength ratings. See also further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.

Title: Competition
  There is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. We are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment services, and technology solutions. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are quality of the customer experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, price, financial strength ratings, claims-paying ratings, and a solution to allow customers to comply with the changing laws and regulations related to family medical leave benefits.
Our principal competitors for our products include the largest employee benefit insurance companies as well as regional companies offering specialty products. Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete.
In the United Kingdom and Poland, where we sell both individual and group products, we compete with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers.
All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of certain of our products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. As a result, there is a risk that our customers may seek coverage from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. 13
We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. We compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.
For further discussion, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.

Title: Regulation
  We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Poland. The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. New or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations.

Title: Insurance Regulation and Oversight
  Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they do business. State insurance regulators in the U.S. generally have broad powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business, including the power to: license and examine insurance companies; regulate and supervise sales practices and market conduct; license agents and brokers; approve policy forms; approve premium rates and subsequent increases thereon for certain insurance products; establish reserve requirements and solvency standards; place limitations on shareholder dividends; prescribe the form and content of required financial statements and reports; regulate the types and amounts of permitted investments; regulate the use and disclosure of personal information; and regulate reinsurance transactions. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by their states of domicile and by other states in which they are licensed to conduct business. The domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues and reserve adequacy. Examinations by non-domestic states more typically focus on market conduct, such as a review of sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices, and identification and handling of unclaimed property to determine compliance with state laws. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessments by state insurance guaranty associations to cover the proportional cost of insolvent or failed insurers.
We are also regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. The DOL enforces a comprehensive federal statute that regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans.
Our U.K. insurance subsidiary, Unum Limited, is subject to dual regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The PRA oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies. The FCA seeks to protect consumers and oversees the products and practices of financial services companies in the U.K., including insurance companies.
In 2020, an official bill was passed formalizing the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union (EU). A deal was reached later in 2020, on the future trading relationship with the EU, which focused primarily on the trading of goods rather than the U.K.’s service sector. A memorandum of understanding on regulatory cooperation was announced in 2021 and signed by the U.K. and the EU in June 2023. The withdrawal did not have a material impact on our U.K. business. The U.K. government is reviewing the regulatory framework of financial services companies and the PRA is consulting with industry on proposed changes. Certain changes have already been finalized, which have improved the solvency position of our U.K. business at December 31, 2023. Additionally, the remaining pending proposals may lead to future changes in the solvency position of our U.K. business. Our Polish business, which is in the EU, was not impacted by the withdrawal.
Our Polish insurance subsidiary, Unum Zycie TUiR, is subject to regulation by the Komisja Nadzoru Finansowego (KNF) of the Financial Supervision Authority (FSA) in Poland. The KNF oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies and other financial institutions.

Title: Capital Requirements
  Risk-based capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurance companies are prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). The domiciliary states of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the NAIC RBC Model Act, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. The basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. The life and health RBC formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from a mismatch in asset and liability cash flows due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. The formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. The formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally.
The NAIC continues to review the state-based solvency regulation framework to identify opportunities to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. The topics of its review include capital requirements, governance and risk management, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance. This ongoing review has resulted in changes to U.S. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.
All states where our traditional U.S. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled require insurers to conduct, at least annually, an own risk and solvency assessment (ORSA), which is a group-level perspective on the risks of current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks. We file an ORSA summary report annually with the applicable insurance regulators.
The NAIC has also developed a group capital calculation (GCC) intended to be used by U.S. regulators as a tool to assess the risks and financial position of insurance groups, including any non-insurance subsidiaries. The NAIC amended the Model Holding Company Act and Regulation to adopt the GCC and implement an annual GCC filing requirement. O ur lead state regulator, the Maine Bureau of Insurance (MBOI), adopted the NAIC GCC standards in 2022 and we subsequently submitted our first GCC report to the MBOI in 2023. These standards have not had an impact on our capital management.
We are also monitoring the International Association of Insurance Supervisors' (IAIS) development of new capital requirements applicable to Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs). While we are not currently subject to the reforms adopted by the IAIS, they are a factor influencing the substance and timing of the NAIC's activities around capital.
The NAIC and state insurance regulators continue to examine the industry's use of captive insurance companies to transfer insurance risk and reserves required under current regulations. No changes in the use or regulation of captive reinsurers have been proposed by the NAIC, and we are unable to predict the extent of any changes that might be made. Fairwind remains our only captive reinsurer. We expect to continue our strategy of using a captive reinsurer to manage risks while monitoring the NAIC's study and proposed changes in regulations. See "Reinsurance" contained herein in this Item 1 for further discussion.
The PRA has statutory requirements, including capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and minimum solvency margins, to which Unum Limited must adhere as part of the provisions of Solvency II, an EU directive that is part of retained U.K. law pursuant to the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, which prescribes capital requirements and risk management standards. Our U.K. holding company is also subject to the Solvency II requirements relevant to insurance holding companies, while its subsidiaries (the Unum UK Solvency II Group), which includes Unum Limited, are subject to group and individual supervision under Solvency II. The Unum UK Solvency II Group received approval from the U.K. PRA to use its own internal model for calculating regulatory capital and also received approval for certain associated regulatory permissions including transitional relief which applies until January 2032. The U.K. government is reviewing the regulatory framework of financial services companies and the PRA is consulting with the industry on proposed changes. Certain changes have already been finalized, which have improved the solvency position of our U.K. business at December 31, 2023. Additionally, the remaining pending proposals may lead to future changes in the solvency position of our U.K. business. At December 31, 2023, the implementation date for the remaining proposed changes has not yet been finalized.
See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Executive Summary," "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 18 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.

Title: Insurance Holding Company Regulation
  We and our U.S. insurance subsidiaries (excluding our captive reinsurer) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, which currently include Maine, Massachusetts, New York, South Carolina, and Tennessee. These laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions. Transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary state insurance regulator.
In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our Company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries. See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Available from Subsidiaries" contained herein in Item 7.
The NAIC has adopted the Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act and the Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Regulation, which require U.S. insurers to disclose detailed information regarding their governance practices. The model act and regulation must be adopted by individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective in a particular state. All of the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled have adopted a requirement to file a corporate governance annual disclosure similar to the model act and regulation.
The laws of most states, including the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurance company or its holding company. Where these laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in control of our Company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the appropriate insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval of the proposed change. The usual measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to these laws is the acquisition of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company, although this presumption is rebuttable. Consequently, a person acquiring 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its holding company without the prior approval of the insurance regulators in the state(s) of domicile of the insurance company(ies) sought to be acquired (or whose holding company is sought to be acquired) will be in violation of these laws. Such a person may also be subject to one or more of the following actions: (i) injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those shares by the applicable insurance regulators; (ii) prohibition of voting of such shares; and (iii) other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulators. Further, many states' insurance laws require that prior notification be given to state insurance regulators of a change in control of a non-domiciled insurance company doing business in the state. These pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance regulators to disapprove the change in control; however, they do authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of our Company or of any of our insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-notification laws.
These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.

Title: Information Security and Privacy Regulation
  A growing number of federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations require companies, including insurance companies, to adopt measures designed to protect the security and privacy of personal information collected during the course of operations. These laws and regulations vary across jurisdictions.
Specifically, state insurance laws govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information in the context of providing insurance products and services. Certain of our insurance products also are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, which is enforced by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and regulates the disclosure and use of protected health information. Generally, these laws require insurers to give policyholders notice about the insurer’s privacy practices, place restrictions on how the insurer can use and disclose personal information, require the insurer to enact certain cybersecurity measures to protect the data, and obligate insurers to notify individuals and regulators in certain cases when personal data is compromised.
Cybersecurity is an area of significant, and increasing, focus of insurance regulators. For example, the NAIC's Insurance Data Security Model Law (the Cybersecurity Model Law), enacted in over twenty states, requires insurers to implement cybersecurity measures and develop cyber incident response plans. The New York State Department of Financial Services' cybersecurity regulation contains provisions similar to the Cybersecurity Model Law, in addition to more prescriptive cybersecurity obligations.
States are also adopting laws and regulations that govern the collection, processing, storage, and destruction of personal information outside the context of providing insurance products. Several states have enacted comprehensive consumer privacy laws, and other states are considering passing similar laws. Currently, significant portions of our business are exempt from the requirements of these laws, but we cannot be certain that will continue to be the case as additional laws are adopted and existing laws are amended.
The General Data Protection Regulation of the EU and the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (collectively referred to as "the GDPR") establish the legal framework for our EU and U.K. entities that collect and process information from individuals who reside in the EU and U.K., respectively. The GDPR is a comprehensive set of data protection rules that gives individuals certain rights to their personal data and places obligations on organizations that process personal data.
We continuously monitor federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability and resources.

Title: Other Laws and Regulations
  We are subject to the U.S. federal laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the New York Stock Exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading. Further, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas.
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the United States contain some similar provisions. Additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the U.K.'s Bribery Act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls.
Enacted in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) effected comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States. Dodd-Frank directed various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, many of which remain to be completed.
In June 2023, the SEC approved new listing standards proposed by the New York Stock Exchange to comply with rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to portions of the Dodd-Frank Act that directed the SEC to regulate and require public companies to implement a compensation recovery policy. In accordance with the rules and listing standards, each listed issuer must adopt and disclose a policy, known as a clawback policy, providing for the recovery of any erroneously awarded incentive-based compensation from current and former executive officers in the event of a required accounting restatement due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities laws. The clawback policy would apply to compensation received during the three-year period preceding the date the issuer is required to prepare the accounting restatement. We adopted such a clawback policy in November 2023. We continue to monitor the political, legislative, and regulatory environment, where possible amendments to various provisions of Dodd-Frank are under discussion.
We are subject to income, employment, premium, excise and other taxes related to both our U.S. and our foreign operations. In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) was signed into law in the U.S. and includes certain corporate tax provisions effective January 1, 2023. It imposed a new 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) on adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) on corporations that have average AFSI over $1.0 billion in any prior three-year period, starting with years 2020 to 2022. Our company is an applicable corporation, but we do not have a CAMT liability as of December 31, 2023. 17
We do not expect that any CAMT incurred in the future would impact earnings since it would be offset with a credit toward regular income tax in subsequent years. We continue to monitor the ongoing guidance issued by the United States Treasury. The IRA also imposed a one percent excise tax on the fair market value of corporate stock repurchases effective January 1, 2023.
In 2021, the Finance Act 2021 was enacted in the U.K., which established a U.K. corporate tax rate of 25 percent effective April 1, 2023.
See "Executive Summary" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 9 and 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for discussion of the impact to our financial position and results of operations as a result of these changes.
Federal, foreign, and state tax laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change could materially impact our federal, foreign, or state taxes and reduce profitability as well as capital levels in our insurance subsidiaries. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has established model rules to ensure a minimum level of tax of 15 percent (Pillar Two) for multinational companies. Several jurisdictions, including the U.K., Poland, and Ireland, have adopted or plan to adopt Pillar Two for tax years after 2023. Legislation enacted thus far as a result of Pillar Two is not expected to materially impact the Company. We continually monitor tax legislative and regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our profitability.
Regulatory focus on the risks posed by climate change is increasing, with some regulators now requiring that the Company integrate consideration of the risks of climate change into our governance and risk management frameworks, and other regulators attempting to limit the types of factors that can be incorporated into investment decisions. We expect regulatory activity in this area, including the potential for conflicting regulations, to continue.
U.S. and international insurance regulators are also increasing focus on insurers’ use of artificial intelligence, automated decision-making technologies, and external consumer data. We continue to monitor any regulatory developments to understand their potential impact on our business.
For further discussion of regulation, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.

Title: Geographic Areas
  Adjusted operating revenue, which excludes net investment gains and losses, for our Unum International segment was approximately 8 percent of our consolidated adjusted operating revenue in 2023, approximately 7 percent in 2022, and approximately 7 percent in 2021. As of December 31, 2023, total assets equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated assets and total liabilities equaled approximately 5 percent of consolidated liabilities for our Unum International segment. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our Unum International segment will impact our reported operating results. See "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. See "Reporting Segments" contained herein in this Item 1; "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7; and Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of Unum International's operating results.

Title: Human Capital Resources
  Title: Human Capital
  The Company is built on the promise of helping the working world thrive throughout life’s moments, an inspiring purpose that requires harnessing the creativity and energy of our employees. As of December 31, 2023, we employed 10,812 employees, of which approximately 10,553 are full-time employees. Approximately 86 percent of our employees are in the United States, and the remaining 14 percent are international.
We have experienced lower voluntary turnover, which, excluding Poland, decreased from 14.9 percent in 2022 to 10 percent in 2023 and remains below the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' voluntary turnover benchmark of 15 percent for the U.S. finance and insurance industry. Recognizing that the marketplace for talent has remained competitive, we continued to make targeted investments during the year to help retain talent in roles experiencing notable market pressure, based on external benchmarks and internal data. 18
During 2023 we increased both the number of employees on a hybrid office schedule and the number of days those employees would be in an office. Our flexible approach maximizes the benefits of the office, such as networking, learning, and collaborative problem solving, while offering employees the flexibility to design an in-office schedule based on work and life obligations. This approach ensures that we continue to grow, change, and thrive as an enterprise by helping to support a diverse workforce with a focus on employee well-being. Additionally, it supports our commitment to build an inclusive culture, creating diversity in how and where we work. As we continue to gain insights based on our experience, we may continue to adjust our hybrid approach. Our international locations each continue to follow their established strategies based on their local environment.

Title: Compensation and Benefits
  We provide compensation and benefits programs which support our employees’ health, wealth, and life. In addition to competitive pay, other programs (which vary by country/region) include: annual bonus and employee recognition; stock awards and stock purchase; life, medical, pharmacy, health reimbursement accounts; telehealth and preventive services; dental, vision, voluntary benefits and disability insurance; tuition assistance; 401(k) plan, an industry-leading emergency savings program, financial education and planning support; student debt relief; back-up and emergency care services; employee assistance program and family building resources; digital behavioral health support; paid time off and paid holidays; paid caregiver and parental leave; virtual stress management resources; onsite and virtual fitness memberships and subsidized healthy food options.

Title: Inclusion and Diversity
  Our purpose of helping the working world thrive throughout life's moments starts with our workforce. Each of our unique perspectives, experiences and backgrounds equip us to better serve our customers, communities — and each other. We are committed to creating a culture of belonging where employees can bring their full selves to work and add to our diversity of thought. We meet the needs of our customers and maximize innovation by reflecting diversity in our workforce. Of our 10,812 employees, 66 percent identify as female; and 22 percent, excluding Poland, identify as members of an ethnic or racially diverse group.
We embrace the unique talents of every team member and help them reach their full potential by ensuring all employees understand Unum’s commitment to inclusion and diversity (I&D). Through our new hire onboarding training, continuous focused learning and leadership development programs, and an array of online resources, our dedicated Office of I&D focuses on driving I&D strategies that create a culture where inclusivity is owned by every employee and leader. We partner with diverse stakeholders to increase awareness and provide guidance that helps operationalize inclusion through resources, programs, and policies that enhance our workforce culture.
Our Inclusion Network plays a critical role in our I&D strategy by helping to identify solutions to inclusion barriers and advance our I&D initiatives. The Inclusion Network includes our I&D Advisory Board, Employee Networks and Inclusion Business Champions. The I&D Advisory Board has oversight of our Employee Networks and provides thought partnership on I&D priorities. This group works collaboratively with leadership, employees, and other stakeholders across the business to create a culture that values diversity, promotes fairness, and ensures inclusion at all levels of the organization. Employee Networks are designed to create connections and build community while advancing belonging and uniqueness across the company. Our current Employee Networks represent the following groups: bePROUD (LGBTQ+); enABLE (Disabilities); UNITEd (Multicultural); upLIFT (Gender Equity); and weSERVE (Military/Veterans). Our Inclusion Business Champions represent each of our functional business areas to link our I&D strategic goals to the day-to-day functions of the business and help execute our I&D commitment into actionable steps that positively impact the business.
As our engagement with the I&D strategy deepens, leaders will endeavor to weave I&D principles into their routine and day-to-day conduct. This effort is continually strengthened by leadership all year round. By adopting a shared sense of duty, leaders play a crucial role in promoting inclusivity at every organizational tier.
Our success is dependent on our capacity to attract, nurture, and retain a diverse array of top-tier talent. We are unwavering in our dedication to incorporating inclusive recruitment strategies throughout the entire organization. We routinely conduct thorough reviews of our selection process, making necessary adjustments to ensure inclusivity across every stage. Collaborating closely with our Office of Inclusion and Diversity, the Talent Acquisition team works diligently to establish strategies that facilitate the retention of diverse talent through internal mobility and a sense of belonging. We actively support our recruiters in obtaining and maintaining certifications in inclusive recruiting. Furthermore, we prioritize ongoing training for 19
our recruiters and hiring managers, with a specific focus on addressing unconscious bias in the selection process. This training equips them with actionable insights to mitigate bias and promote fairness in our hiring practices.
Our partnerships with various inclusive organizations and associations underscore our dedication to fostering diverse hiring practices at all organizational levels.

Title: Learning and Development
  We are committed to supporting the growth and development of our workforce, ensuring employees are engaged and skilled to support not only Unum’s growth but also their own.
All employees have one-to-one coaching sessions with their managers. On a quarterly basis, managers summarize conversations with meaningful documentation on key accomplishments, progress toward goals, and other areas of focus, including career development, learning goals, etc. Managers and employees also review next steps to help align activities with company goals. We believe continuous coaching conversations help all employees and managers work more effectively.
Employees have access to a portfolio of skills and career development offerings, including on-demand tools and learning resources, role-based development offerings, and cohort-based leadership development programs. In 2023, we launched Dedicated Learning Time to formally allocate time for employees to participate in learning activities and explore opportunities to grow and develop. This benefit will be widely available in 2024.
We offer numerous tools, resources, and programs to support employee growth and development, including:
• Robust operational training focused on helping employees develop and refine the skills they need to be proficient in their roles. • Career development resources, tools, and workshops to facilitate robust career conversations and identify learning and development needs and opportunities. • On-demand skill building resources provide broad access to dynamic skills-based learning content, including offerings through our partnerships with LinkedIn Learning and Coursera. • Targeted skill development programs prepare employees for emerging and evolving skill demands. Tuition reimbursement benefits are also available to support career growth and specific upskilling and reskilling efforts through formal degree and certification offerings. • In-role leadership development programs , including the Future Leaders Program (FLP) and Accelerated Leadership Program (ALP), focus on accelerating leadership development and building critical skills for high-potential employees while they remain in their current roles. • Multi-year rotational programs, including the Actuarial Development Program (ADP), Accounting and Finance Development Program (AFDP) and Professional Development Program (PDP), focus on preparing participants to become future leaders of our company. The ADP and the AFDP focus on developing both leadership and finance-related technical skills, while the PDP focuses primarily on developing leadership combined with broad operational experience. • People Manager Development offerings including foundational onboarding and learning for new people managers and ongoing learning resources for experienced people leaders at all levels.
We recognize that our employees are an important asset. Therefore, it is imperative that we continue to focus on the growth and development of our workforce in a meaningful way and provide them with the necessary support to achieve their career goals.

Title: Employee Engagement
  To ensure our employees are engaged and are effectively delivering on our mission and meeting our customers’ needs, we regularly conduct confidential employee surveys to obtain feedback and gain insights from our employees. These surveys are thoughtfully considered and actioned by leadership. We are committed to our employees’ growth and development and embrace the diversity of ideas for improvement. In our employee survey conducted in 2023, 9,836 employees responded and approximately 79 percent of those employees indicated favorable engagement and would recommend the company as a great place to work. 20

Title: Available Information
  Our internet website address is www.unum.com . We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Title: Information about our Executive Officers
  Our executive officers and persons chosen to become executive officers as of the date hereof are listed below. Our executive officers, who are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by Unum Group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.
Mr. McKenney became President in April 2015 and Chief Executive Officer in May 2015. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2009 until April 2015, having joined the Company in July 2009. Before joining the Company, Mr. McKenney served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sun Life Financial Inc., an international financial services company, from February 2007, having joined that company as Executive Vice President in September 2006.
Mr. Zabel became Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in July 2019. He previously served as Senior Vice President and President, Closed Block Operations from July 2015 to July 2019 and as Senior Vice President, Chief Risk Officer from August 2013 to July 2015. Prior to joining the Company in August 2013, he served in various senior roles at Genworth Financial, Inc. from 2004, including Senior Vice President of Long-Term Care Insurance, Chief Financial Officer for Insurance Products, and Senior Vice President of Corporate Audit Services.
Ms. Ahmed was named Executive Vice President, People and Communications upon joining the Company in October 2018. She served as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, at AmTrust Financial Services, Inc., a multinational insurance holding company, from May 2015 to October 2018. Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Human Resources at Equity Trust Company, a financial services company, from May 2012 to May 2015, and as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at PNC Bank, a diversified financial services institution, from August 2008 to May 2012.
Mr. Arnold was named Executive Vice President, Voluntary Benefits and President, Colonial Life in February 2020. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial Life from January 2015, and before that, as Executive Vice President, President, Colonial Life from July 2014. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Colonial Life from August 2012, as Senior Vice President, Chief Operations Officer, Colonial Life from July 2011, and as Senior Vice President, Integrated Underwriting, Unum US from May 2010.
Mr. Bhasin was named Executive Vice President, Chief Information and Digital Officer after joining the Company in March 2018. He served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Operations and Recycling at Waste Management, Inc., a waste management environmental services provider, from November 2015 to March 2017. While at Waste Management, he also served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Operations from November 2014, Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President, Technology, Logistics and Customer Service from August 2012, and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from December 2009. 21
Ms. Iglesias was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel upon joining the Company in January 2015. She served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of WellCare Health Plans, Inc., a managed care company, from February 2012 to December 2014, having first joined WellCare in February 2010 as Vice President, Securities and Assistant General Counsel. Prior to that, she served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for Nordstrom, Inc., a fashion specialty retailer, from 2007 to 2008.
Ms. Leiper was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer of the Company in October 2019. She joined the Company from USAA, a provider of financial services to the military community, where she served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Enterprise Money Movement from October 2016 to October 2019 and, before that, as Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance and Investments from May 2015 to September 2016 and Senior Vice President, Chief Investment Officer from May 2010 to May 2015. Ms. Leiper previously worked at Unum Group as Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Investment Officer from January 2006 to May 2010.
Mr. Pyne was named Executive Vice President, Group Benefits in February 2020. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Growth Operations and Distribution from June 2018 to January 2020 and as Senior Vice President, Sales and Client Management from June 2011 to June 2018. Before that, Mr. Pyne held positions of increasing responsibility within the Company's U.S. distribution organization, including Vice President, Sales from January 2011 to May 2011 and Vice President, Managing Director from January 2008 to December 2010.
Mr. Till was named Executive Vice President and CEO, Unum International in April 2021, having served as Executive Vice President and CEO Designate, Unum International after joining the Company in February 2021. He served as Managing Director, Platform Solutions at Aegon, an international financial services organization, in the U.K. (Aegon UK) from July 2020 to January 2021. While at Aegon UK, Mr. Till also served as Managing Director, Digital Solutions from May 2018 to July 2020, as Chief Distribution and Marketing Officer from June 2016 to May 2018, and as Managing Director, Customer Value Management from September 2015 to June 2016. He previously served as Head of Personal Investing and Marketing Director for Fidelity International from January 2012 to February 2015.

Title: ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
  Title: Overview
  We face a wide range of risks, and our continued success depends on our ability to identify and appropriately manage our risk exposures. Discussed below are factors that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Any one or more of the following factors may cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company, including those in this document or made by us elsewhere, such as in earnings release investor calls, investor conference presentations, or press releases. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" contained herein on page 1.

Title: Insurance Risks
  Title: We provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
  Title: Disability Insurance
  Disability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. Changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products.
Both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance. Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence. Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses. Claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies. The relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims. 22
Within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken in response to higher claim rates and higher administrative expenses. However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices. In addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. The pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes. Our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business. Guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market.

Title: Long-term Care Insurance
  Long-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors. Because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products, especially at advanced ages. This creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves. Long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but the repricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside. The rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the repricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves. We monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends. Changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves. To the extent mortality improves for the general population, and life expectancies increase, the period for which a claimant receives long-term care benefits may lengthen and the associated impact of advanced aging of policyholders may cause an increase in claims incidence. Medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable. Due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows are difficult to match to those of our maturing liabilities.

Title: Group Life Insurance
  Group life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates. Claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage. Within the group life market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken in response to higher claim rates and higher administrative expenses. However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices.

Title: Voluntary Products
  Voluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics. A portion of our voluntary life insurance products include interest sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate. It is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate. While a significant portion of our non-life contracts are optionally renewable, some are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products.

Title: Actual experience may differ from our reserve and deferred acquisition costs (DAC) assumptions which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.
  Historical results may not be indicative of future performance due to, among other things, changes in our mix of business, repricing of certain lines of business, or any number of economic cyclical effects on our business. Reserves, whether calculated under GAAP or statutory accounting principles, do not represent an exact calculation of future benefit liabilities but are instead estimates made by us using reserve assumptions that are used in our actuarial and statistical procedures. Certain of these GAAP reserve assumptions are also utilized in determining the amortization pattern for DAC. Actual experience may differ from our assumptions which would affect our earnings in current and future periods as a result of changes in reserves and DAC. There can be no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient to fund our future liabilities in all circumstances. Future loss development may require reserves to be increased, which would adversely affect earnings in current or future periods. Life 23
expectancies may increase, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives disability or long-term care benefits and could result in a change in mortality assumptions and an increase in reserves for these and other long-tailed products. Adjustments to reserve or DAC amounts may also be required in the event of changes from the assumptions regarding future claim incidence rates, claim resolution rates, policyholder lapses, mortality, premium rate increases, claim costs, policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits, and interest rates used in calculating the reserve amount, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

Title: We have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.
  If our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset.
We have intangible assets such as value of business acquired (VOBA) and goodwill. VOBA is amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies. Recoverability testing for VOBA is performed on an annual basis. Insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts. If recoverability testing indicates that VOBA is not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense. See Note 1 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional discussion.
Goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors. In accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually.
Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, right-of-use assets, and information technology software, also may require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount.
We assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable. Factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income and the fair value of our investment portfolio. Significant declines in the fair value of our investments could result in the recognition of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established.
Charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
See "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.

Title: Market and Credit Risks
  Title: Sustained periods of low interest rates in the long-term investment market may adversely affect our reported net investment income and the discount rates used in pricing our insurance products and projecting our pension obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.
  Declines in interest rates or sustained periods of low interest rates and yields on fixed income investments may cause the rates of return on our investment portfolio to decrease more than expected, leading to lower net investment income than assumed in the pricing for our insurance products. An interest, or discount, rate is used in determining pricing for our insurance products. If the discount rate assumed in our pricing is higher than our future investment returns, our invested assets may not earn enough investment income to support our future claim payments.
Another interest, or discount, rate is used in calculating reserves. We set our GAAP reserve discount rate assumptions each period based on a yield that is reflective of an upper-medium grade fixed-income instrument, which is generally equivalent to a single-A interest rate matched to the duration of our insurance liabilities. A decline in the single-A interest rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements.
We are also required to perform annual statutory adequacy testing that considers multiple interest rate scenarios, to ensure our statutory reserves continue to meet statutory requirements, which could require us to increase our statutory reserves and/or contribute additional capital to our insurance subsidiaries.
Our net periodic benefit costs and the value of our benefit obligations for our pension plans are determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent our best estimate of future expected experience. Major assumptions used in accounting for these plans include the expected discount (interest) rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. We set the discount rate assumption at the measurement date for each of our plans to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality fixed income corporate debt instruments matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefits. A change in the discount rate impacts the present value of benefit obligations and our costs. Our expectations for the future investment returns on plan assets are based on a combination of historical market performance, current market conditions, and future capital market assumptions obtained from external consultants and economists. The actual rate of return on plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period. Increases or decreases in long-term interest rates as well as equity market volatility will impact the fair value of our plan assets and may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.

Title: Unfavorable economic or market conditions may result in lower sales, lower premium growth and persistency, higher claims incidence, unfavorable mortality, longer claims duration, and higher expenses which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.
  We are affected by conditions in the capital markets and the general economy, primarily in the United States, the United Kingdom, Poland, and to a lesser extent, the broader global financial markets. Negative developments in the capital markets and/or the general economy could adversely affect our business, including our investment portfolio, and results of operations.
Factors such as unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, inflation, pandemics, and the threat of terrorism all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our businesses. In particular, high levels of inflation could result in higher expenses and negatively affect the discretionary spending of our customers, which could result in lower sales. More generally, given the nature of our products, in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower personal income, reduced consumer spending, and lower corporate earnings and investment, new product sales may be adversely affected. Our premium growth may also be negatively impacted by lower premium growth from existing customers due to lower salary growth and lower growth in the number of employees covered under an existing policy. In addition, during such periods we may experience higher claims incidence, longer claims duration, and/or an increase in policy lapses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

Title: In addition to interest rate risk as previously discussed, we are exposed to other risks related to our investment portfolio which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
  Title: Default Risk
  Our investment portfolio consists primarily of fixed maturity securities. These securities are issued by both domestic and foreign entities and are backed either by collateral or the credit of the underlying issuer. Factors such as an economic downturn or political change in the country of the issuer, a regulatory change pertaining to the issuer's industry, a significant deterioration in the cash flows of the issuer, unforeseen accounting irregularities or fraud committed by the issuer, widening risk spreads, ratings downgrades, a change in the issuer's marketplace or business prospects, or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities may result in the issuer defaulting on its obligations.
Our mortgage loan portfolio has default risk. Events or developments, such as economic conditions that impact the ability of tenants to pay their rents or limit the availability of refinancing, may have a negative effect on our mortgage loan portfolio. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on an investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated in that region or sector. 25
A default results in the recognition of an impairment loss on the investment. A default may also adversely affect our ability to collect principal and interest due to us. The probability of credit downgrades and defaults increases when the fixed income markets experience periods of volatility and illiquidity.

Title: Credit Spread Risk
  Our exposure to credit spreads, which is the yield above comparable U.S. Treasury securities, primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads may unfavorably impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of the investment portfolio and may adversely impact liquidity. Credit spread tightening may reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed income securities.

Title: Valuation Risk
  We report our fixed maturity securities and certain other financial instruments at fair value. Valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, particularly during periods of market disruption, resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may ultimately be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported in our financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
We evaluate our investment portfolio for credit losses. There can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of credit losses taken. Additional credit losses may need to be taken in the future, and historical trends may not be indicative of future credit losses. Any event reducing the value of our securities may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.

Title: Market Timing and Liquidity Risk
  While we attempt to match our asset cash flows and durations with expected liability cash flows and durations to meet the funding requirements of our business, there may at times be a lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired. In particular, due to the long duration of our long-term care product, the timing of our investment cash flows do not match those of our maturing liabilities. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, need to sell investments due to changes in regulatory or capital requirements, changes in tax laws, rating agency decisions, and/or unexpected changes in liquidity needs. There may also be a limited market for certain of our investments, such as our private equity partnerships, private placement fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, and policy loans, which makes them more illiquid. In periods of market volatility or disruption, other of our securities may also experience reduced liquidity. If events occur wherein we need to sell securities in an unfavorable interest rate or credit environment or need to quickly sell securities which are illiquid, market prices may be lower than what we might realize under normal circumstances, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.

Title: The effectiveness and utilization of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in forecasted cash flows, the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
  We use derivative financial instruments to help us manage various risks related to our business operations including interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, foreign currency risk, credit risk, and equity risk. Factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment, changes in forecasted cash flows, or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions. Non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged. Under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral. Sustained periods of elevated interest rates may require a higher level of collateral to be posted to our counterparties, which also may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements. 26

Title: Reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.
  As part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses. We also utilize reinsurance to exit certain lines of business. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements. The collectability of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. The insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

Title: Currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results.
  The functional currency of our U.K. and Polish operations is the British pound sterling and the Polish zloty, respectively. Fluctuations in exchange rates impact our reported financial results, which may be unfavorably affected when the functional currency weakens. However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert our functional currency into dollars. As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the U.K or Poland.
See "Liability for Future Policy Benefits" contained herein in Item 1, "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, "Interest Rate Risk" contained herein in Item 7A, and Notes 1, 2, 3, 4, and 11 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.

Title: Public Health Risks
  Title: Pandemics and other public health issues can negatively impact certain aspects of our business and, depending on severity and duration, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources, and overall business operations.
  If economic conditions worsen as a result of a pandemic or other public health issue, that may adversely affect the financial condition of current or potential customers, which may result in lower sales or other negative impacts to customer purchasing patterns. If we experience unfavorable developments related to our revenues, benefits, or expenses, we may correspondingly experience adverse impacts to our overall future profitability and growth, which may alter the timing and magnitude of our plans for overall business growth. In addition, these unfavorable developments may result in the impairment or write-off of certain assets such as premiums receivable, goodwill, property and equipment, VOBA, and right-of-use assets, or the establishment of a valuation allowance regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets.
If economic conditions worsen as a result of a pandemic or other public health issue, that may also result in the inability for companies to make interest and principal payments on their debt securities or mortgage loans that we hold for investment purposes. Accordingly, although we maintain a disciplined approach regarding our overall investment strategy, we may still incur significant losses that can result in a decline in net investment income and/or material increases in credit losses on our investment portfolio. With respect to commercial real estate, there could be potential impacts to estimates of expected losses resulting from lower underlying values, reflecting current market conditions at that time.
Although we have access to significant amounts of liquidity, which include a credit facility and our facility agreement for contingent issuance of senior notes, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) arrangements, and the ability to liquidate certain investments, it may be insufficient or even inaccessible if we are not in compliance with required covenants under our borrowing arrangements or if the associated lenders are unable to provide funds. In addition, if investment markets become illiquid or severely impaired, we may be unable to liquidate our investments in a timely and advantageous manner.
From an operational perspective, our employees, sales associates, brokers, and distribution partners, as well as the workforces of our vendors, service providers, and counterparties, may be adversely affected by a pandemic or other public health issue, 27
including government-mandated shutdowns, requests or orders for employees to work remotely, and other social distancing measures. These measures could result in an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business, including our ability to sell our policies and our ability to adjudicate and pay claims in a timely manner. Additionally, our hybrid work environment may expose us to various additional risks such as elevated cybersecurity vulnerability resulting from the wide-scale remote usage of our company networks and related risks to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.
There is no guarantee that processes we have developed in order to adapt to the COVID-19 pandemic would succeed in allowing us to adapt to any future pandemic or other public health issue, which may have materially different characteristics than the COVID-19 pandemic.
To the extent pandemics or other public health issues adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources, and overall business operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks disclosed herein in this Item 1A "Risk Factors".
See "Executive Summary", "Segment Operating Results", and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included herein in Part 2, Item 7 under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional discussion.

Title: General Risks
  Title: We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. Changes in laws and regulations that affect our industry or findings from examinations and investigations may affect the cost or demand for our products, increase capital and reserving requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and adversely affect our profitability, liquidity, or growth.
  Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation in the United States and abroad. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders. To that end, regulatory authorities, including state insurance departments in the United States, the PRA in the United Kingdom, and the KNF in Poland have broad administrative powers over many aspects of the insurance business, including requiring various licenses, permits, authorizations, or accreditations, which our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain, or may be able to do so only at great cost. In addition, we and our insurance subsidiaries may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and insurance holding companies. These laws and regulations can be complex and subject to differing interpretations and are regularly re-examined. Existing or future laws and regulations, and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. For example, they may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, restrict transactions between subsidiaries and/or between us and our subsidiaries, and may require contributions of capital by us to our insurance subsidiaries even if we are otherwise in compliance with stated requirements. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations could result in restrictions on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate and could result in fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.
Regulatory examinations or investigations could result in, among other things, an increase to reserving requirements, changes in our claims handling or other business practices, changes in procedures for the identification and payment to the states of benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners, changes in the use and oversight of reinsurance, changes in governance and other oversight procedures, assessments by tax authorities or other governing agencies, fines, and other administrative action, which could injure our reputation, adversely affect our issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products, impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
It is possible that there will be heightened oversight of insurers by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled and operate. We cannot predict specific proposals that might be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. For instance, the NAIC or state regulators may adopt further revisions to statutory reserving standards or the RBC formula, the PRA may revise its capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, the IAIS may adopt capital requirements to which we could be subject, or rating agencies may incorporate higher capital thresholds into their quantitative analyses, thus requiring additional capital contributions by us to our insurance subsidiaries. Increased financial services regulation, which could include activities undertaken by the NAIC and regulatory authorities in the U.K., Poland, and the EU may impose greater quantitative requirements, supervisory review, and disclosure requirements and may impact the business strategies, capital requirements, and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. The U.K. government is reviewing the regulatory framework of 28
financial services companies and the PRA is consulting with the industry on proposed changes. Certain changes have already been finalized, which have improved the solvency position of our U.K. business at December 31, 2023. Additionally, the remaining pending proposals may lead to future changes in the solvency position of our U.K. business. The U.K.'s Financial Ombudsman Service, which was established to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses providing financial services, and the FCA, which has rule-making, investigative, and enforcement powers to protect consumers, may hamper our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our U.K. operations.
Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Poland, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies within these countries, which may also be influenced by the International Accounting Standards Board. Future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements. Such changes could have a material effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition and may impact the perception of our business by external stakeholders including the rating agencies that assign the issuer credit rating on Unum Group.
We use an affiliated captive reinsurer for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by one of our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency. If we were required to discontinue use of the captive reinsurer or to alter the structure of the captive reinsurance arrangement, our ability to maintain current RBC ratios and/or our capital deployment activities could be adversely affected.
Changes in U.S. programs such as healthcare reform, the continued emergence of paid family and medical leave legislation, and financial services sector reform may compete with or diminish the need or demand for our products, particularly as it may affect our ability to sell our products through employers or in the workplace. The U.S. social security disability insurance program may not be sustainable, which may adversely affect the level of our disability claim payments and reserves. Legislative changes related to pension funding requirements could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and our profitability.
Changes in tax laws and other regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could unfavorably impact our corporate taxes. In addition, changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers.
Changes in privacy, cybersecurity, and artificial intelligence laws and regulations may result in cost increases as a result of system implementations, administrative processes, effects of potential noncompliance, and limitations or constraints of our business models.
Changes in laws governing oversight and management of climate change risk may subject us to increased costs.
Most group long-term and short-term disability plans we administer are governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Changes to ERISA enacted by Congress or through judicial interpretations may adversely affect the risk to us of managing employee benefit plans, increase the premiums associated with such plans, and ultimately affect their affordability and our profitability.
The insurance departments in jurisdictions wherein our insurance subsidiaries conduct business may limit our ability to obtain rate increases under guaranteed renewable contracts or could require changes in rates and/or benefits to meet minimum loss ratio requirements which could negatively impact the profitability of our products. Many regulatory and governmental bodies have the authority to review our products and business practices and those of our agents and employees. These regulatory or governmental bodies may bring regulatory or other legal actions against us if, in their view, our practices are improper. These actions could result in substantial fines or restrictions on our business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct may also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits.

Title: Competition may adversely affect our market share or profitability.
  All of our businesses are highly competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are the quality of our customer's experience regarding service and claims management, integrated product choices, enrollment capabilities, price, financial strength ratings, claims-paying ratings, and a solution to allow customers to comply with the changing laws and regulations related to family medical leave benefits. We compete for new product sales, the retention of existing business, and the ability to attract and retain independent agents and brokers to market our products, all of which affect our profitability. All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of 29
the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. There is a risk that our customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms or improved technology solutions from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us, particularly if industry pricing levels do not align with our view of adequate premium rates. We are operating in a dynamic competitive environment of both traditional and non-traditional competitors, with changes in product offerings, enrollment capabilities, and technology solutions. The level and intensity of competition may also grow due to existing competitors becoming more aggressive, and an increase in merger and acquisition activity which may result in larger competitors with greater financial resources. There are many insurance companies which actively compete with us in our lines of business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies and new competitors in the future.

Title: A decrease in our financial strength or issuer credit ratings may adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to hedge our risks, and our cost of capital or ability to raise capital, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
  We compete based in part on the financial strength ratings provided by rating agencies. Although we maintain an ongoing dialogue with the rating agencies that assign financial strength ratings to our insurance subsidiaries, the rating agencies may revise the criteria that are used to evaluate the financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries which could lead to placing our rating on "credit watch" or "under review" and ultimately lead to a downgrade. A downgrade of our financial strength ratings may adversely affect us and could potentially, among other things, adversely affect our relationships with distributors of our products and services and retention of our sales force, negatively impact persistency and new sales, and generally adversely affect our ability to compete. A downgrade in the issuer credit rating assigned to Unum Group can be expected to adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise additional capital. If we are downgraded significantly, ratings triggers in our derivatives financial instrument contracts may result in our counterparties enforcing their option to terminate the derivative contracts. Such an event may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to hedge our risks.

Title: Events that damage our reputation may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
  There are many events which may harm our reputation, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this Item 1A regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, social issues, and cyber or other information security incidents.
In addition, being in the business of insurance, we are paid to accept certain risks. Those who conduct business on our behalf, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions. Although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective. If our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation.
Depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital.

Title: Litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation.
  We are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. An estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. An adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope, and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings.
As part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits. Typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. For our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. We expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses.

Title: Our actions to incorporate environmental, social, and governance standards may not meet expectations of investors, regulators, customers, employees, and other stakeholders.
  Investors, regulators, current and prospective customers, employees, and other stakeholders may evaluate our business according to certain environmental, social, and governance (ESG) standards and expectations. To help monitor and meet stakeholder expectations, we developed a corporate sustainability strategic framework. Our framework aims to create long-term value for stakeholders by implementing strategically aligned business practices that incorporate ESG factors, with a focus on accelerating our efforts around responsible investments, inclusive products and services, and reducing environmental impact. We include ESG considerations in fundamental analysis of our investments because we believe these considerations are important for analyzing the long-term risk-reward characteristics of an investment. As our framework matures and we continue to integrate ESG standards in coordination with other business priorities, our ESG-related efforts may not prove completely effective or may not satisfy our key stakeholders. Additionally, national and local governments and regulators have proposed and are likely to continue to propose new ESG-related rules that would apply to our business, including regulations focused on increased disclosures and management of investment portfolios. Such regulations may require the development of new processes and controls that may be complex and result in increases in expenses to ensure compliance, or they may run counter to our corporate sustainability strategic framework, conflict with other regulations that apply to us, or cause us to forgo business opportunities. Stakeholder ESG-related expectations may increase in the short, medium, and long term and may affect our business, and they may also subject us to scrutiny leading to operational, reputational, or legal challenges.
See "Liability for Future Policy Benefits", "Competition", "Regulation" and "Ratings" contained herein in Item 1, "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1, 6, 9, and 16 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.

Title: Operational Risks
  Title: A cyber attack or other security breach could disrupt our operations, result in compromised data, the unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential data, damage our reputation or relationships, and expose us to significant financial and legal liability, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
  We store confidential information about our business and our policyholders, employees, agents, and others on our information technology systems, including proprietary and personally identifiable information. As part of our normal business operations, we use this information and engage third-party providers, including outsourcing, cloud computing, and other business partners, that store, access, process, and transmit such information on our behalf. We devote significant resources and employ security measures to help protect our information technology systems and confidential information, and we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to information security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we and our third-party providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties or through open source solutions may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise our information security. Unauthorized parties, whether within or outside our company, may disrupt or gain access to our systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through human error, misfeasance, fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceit, including break-ins, use of stolen credentials, social engineering, phishing, or other cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious codes, and similar means of unauthorized and destructive tampering. Specifically, we have seen an increase in the number and sophistication of phishing attacks that seek access to our systems through emails sent to our employees. We have taken action to provide additional training to increase awareness of the potential for these attacks among our workforce.
We and our third-party providers have experienced and likely will continue to experience information security incidents from time to time. Although known incidents have not had a material effect on our business or financial condition, there is no 31
assurance that our security systems and measures will be able to prevent, mitigate, or remediate future incidents that could have such an effect. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our information technology systems, or those of third parties with whom we do business, including a ransomware attack that locks or freezes systems until the payment of a ransom, could cause serious negative consequences for us, including significant disruption of our operations, unauthorized disclosure or loss of confidential information, harm to our brand or reputation, loss of customers and revenues, violations of privacy and other laws, and exposure to litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement proceedings, fines, and potentially criminal proceedings and penalties. If we are unaware of the incident for some time after it occurs, our exposure could increase. In addition, the costs to address or remediate systems disruptions or security threats or vulnerabilities, whether before or after an incident, could be significant. As we continue to build our digital capabilities and focus on enhancing the customer experience, the amount of information that we retain and share with third parties, as well as our reliance on them, is likely to grow, increasing the cost to prevent data security breaches and the cost and potential consequences of such breaches. An information technology systems failure could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. Further, successful cyber attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer and investor confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us.
Although we have insurance against some cyber risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits, are subject to deductibles or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies.

Title: The failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event could adversely affect our profitability, results of operations, or financial condition.
  In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic/pandemic, a cyber attack, cyber security breach or other information technology systems failure, a terrorist attack, or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our information technology systems and destroy valuable data or result in a significant failure of our internal control environment. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our employees were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised.
The failure of our information technology and/or disaster recovery processes or systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers’ operations and result in the loss, theft, or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality, or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions, legal claims, and increased expenses, and lead to a loss of customers and revenues.

Title: We may be unable to hire and retain qualified employees which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
  The talent and contributions of our employees are critical to meeting our business needs. Our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel. In recent periods we have experienced increased competition for qualified talent and higher turnover compared to our historical experience, as many employees seek higher wages, new careers, or choose to exit the workforce entirely. The greater opportunities for fully remote or hybrid working arrangements have contributed to this trend, as many employees are no longer limited to employers located in their local area. We have taken steps to address this challenge, including updating compensation structures, allowing for more hybrid or remote working arrangements, and taking advantage of opportunities to recruit highly skilled employees from other employers. However, any prolonged stress on our ability to retain or recruit employees may result in increased labor costs and could adversely affect our ability to conduct and manage our business.

Title: Our failure to develop digital capabilities or to effectively execute upgrades to or replacements of information technology systems could impair our ability to deliver on our growth initiatives or administer our business, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
  Our business plans increasingly rely on digital capabilities to meet or surpass customer expectations, simplify our operations, and deliver innovative product and service offerings. If we are unable to effectively develop and offer digital capabilities that enhance our customers' experience, we may not fully achieve our strategic growth initiatives and may also experience the loss of existing business. Although we believe we have information technology systems which adequately support our business needs, we continually upgrade our existing information technology systems and acquire or develop new systems to keep pace 32
with the rapidly changing business and technology environment. There are risks involved with upgrading or replacing information technology systems, including, but not limited to, data loss, data errors, and disruption to our operations. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to the risks arising out of these activities through our risk control framework which encompasses a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes, and other mechanisms.

Title: Unum Group depends on funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations and pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to Unum Group may be impaired by adverse financial results or a change in capital requirements. Accordingly, internal sources of capital and liquidity may not always be sufficient. If we need to seek external capital, adverse market conditions may affect our access to capital or our cost of capital.
  Unum Group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has limited operations of its own. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to Unum Group. The level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to Unum Group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to Unum Group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of Unum Group's common stock. The use of funds held by Unum Group as consideration in any acquisition could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes.
A change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations. Deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows. Regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this Item 1A may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity. Without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us.
If our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the U.S., the PRA in the U.K., the KNF in Poland, and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength. Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies. Need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies.
Obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty. The markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in Unum Group.
We maintain our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity. Our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default. Our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access the facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.

Title: The use and reliance on third-party vendors, including vendors providing web and cloud-based applications, may disrupt our business, and impact our ability to leverage data.
  We utilize third-party vendors to provide certain business support services. The reliance on these third-party vendors exposes us to the risk that we cannot control the information systems, facilities, or networks of such third-party vendors. We employ substantial third-party risk management measures designed to mitigate this risk, which include, but are not limited to, security and vulnerability assessments of these third-party vendors as well as robust contractual protections. However, if the information systems, facilities, or networks of a third-party vendor are disrupted, damaged, or fail, we are at risk of being 33
unable to meet legal, regulatory, financial or customer obligations. We could also be adversely affected by a third-party vendor who fails to provide contracted services. In this case, this could lead to lower sales, increased costs, and a disruption to our business operations or damage our reputation. Lastly, as certain third-party vendors may conduct operations outside of the U.S., political and military events in foreign jurisdictions could have an adverse effect on our operations.

Title: Our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business.
  We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, public health, insurance, and operations risks, which ultimately impact our reputational risk. However, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures. In this case, there may be a negative impact to our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
See "Regulation" contained herein in Item 1,"Critical Accounting Estimates" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A, and Notes 10, 16, and 18 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.

Title: ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
  None

Title: ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY
  We take our responsibility for the privacy and security of the information our customers share with us seriously. Through our cybersecurity program, we constantly watch for threats to our systems and make real-time adjustments to our defenses to protect customer data and minimize service disruptions.
We identify and assess cybersecurity risks on an ongoing basis by maintaining a cybersecurity program that involves a defense-in-depth approach with multiple layers of security controls to protect our environment. We have invested in and deployed a security operating model involving people, processes, and technology that is designed to protect against potential and known cybersecurity risks and threats. Our cybersecurity program involves collaboration with partners, including financial industry groups, to understand and incorporate best practices and engage in cybersecurity threat intelligence sharing. Our security operations team includes internal threat hunters, such as cybersecurity engineers and analysts, who are working directly with third parties to monitor the threat landscape. Alerts from monitoring are analyzed by our security teams for preemptive engagement to avoid or minimize the impact of potential cyber threats. Additional cybersecurity tools are used to detect and block malicious attacks, as well as to govern identity and access management, in each case to avoid or minimize risks of unauthorized access to systems and data.
We utilize an internal global incident management team, comprised of executive and senior management-level personnel, that is responsible for oversight of our business resiliency and cybersecurity incident response programs. Within our information security organization, our cybersecurity incident response team works closely with the business resiliency team across business continuity, disaster recovery, and crisis management functions to plan, prepare, and practice response to simulated cybersecurity incident scenarios for response readiness. In the event of a cybersecurity incident, our incident response team would assess whether to engage the support of law enforcement or other third parties. In addition to our cybersecurity incident response team, we have retainers with leading incident response organizations to augment response activities, if needed. We also conduct one or more annual cybersecurity incident response tabletop exercises with senior management and third-party experts to test our incident response plan and enhance our readiness for a potential cybersecurity incident.
Additionally, we engage an external firm to conduct an annual System and Organization Controls 2 Type 2 examination of certain cybersecurity controls, and additional third parties are engaged, as needed, to perform risk assessments, penetration testing, and other services related to cybersecurity. We rely on third-party cybersecurity software tools and services to enhance many of our cybersecurity functions, such as incident logging, network monitoring, security operations, and data loss prevention, among others. Additionally, we carry cybersecurity insurance to help reduce financial risk posed by cybersecurity incidents.
Cybersecurity risks associated with third-party service providers are managed in accordance with our Third-Party Risk Management (TPRM) program. Components of this program include cybersecurity due diligence and review of contractual terms with third parties that access our network or sensitive information. The TPRM program works to conduct appropriate 34
review of all new third parties and performs ongoing monitoring of our existing relationships based on the risk presented by the third party.
As part of our cybersecurity program, we perform an annual cybersecurity risk assessment to evaluate our cybersecurity program and related controls. The cybersecurity risk assessment follows the guidelines published by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which are aimed at identifying and determining the potential impact of threats and vulnerabilities and assessing the controls in place to mitigate those threats and vulnerabilities. Risks from cybersecurity threats have not materially affected, and are not reasonably likely to materially affect, our business strategy, operations, or financial condition.
Management’s role in assessing and managing cybersecurity risks is led by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), who is a senior vice president and officer of the Company. As of the date of this report, our CISO has over twenty years of experience in information security leadership, including leading threat and vulnerability management, cybersecurity operations and cybersecurity defense, cybersecurity incident response, and technology risk management. He holds a bachelor’s degree in computer science and several professional qualifications, including Certified Information Systems Security Professional and Information Systems Security Management Professional. The responsibilities of prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents are allocated across the CISO's organization, and each organizational unit reports risks and incidents to the CISO, who in turn informs other senior management of cybersecurity incidents that may be material to the company.
Our cybersecurity program is overseen by the Information Security Committee (ISC), a cross-functional management committee whose membership include the CISO, Chief Risk Officer (CRO), Chief Technology Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, and others. Members of the ISC possess substantial experience in risk management, finance, and information security. The ISC is responsible for ensuring that the cybersecurity strategy and program align with our overall risk strategy. Our TPRM program is overseen by the Corporate Operational Risk Committee (CORC), a cross-functional management team whose membership includes leaders from our third-party risk management, corporate services, compliance, sourcing, information technology, and business resiliency teams. The CORC is responsible for ensuring risks to our non-insurance operational functions, including those related to third-party vendors, are identified and managed within our risk appetite, and that our TPRM program and strategy align with our overall business objectives.
The CORC and the ISC both report risks to our Executive Risk Management Committee (ERMC), which is comprised of senior management from our corporate functions and business segments and is responsible for overseeing our enterprise-wide risk management program. The ERMC is chaired by the CRO, who maintains a direct line of communication with the Risk and Finance Committee (RFC) of our board of directors.
The RFC is the board committee that oversees our cybersecurity risk management. Our CISO makes quarterly reports to the RFC about material cybersecurity risks, updates to the cybersecurity program, metrics that evaluate the effectiveness of the cybersecurity program, material cybersecurity incidents and remediation plans. The RFC also receives timely reports from the CISO when there are significant cybersecurity incidents or updates to the cybersecurity risk assessment. The board of directors also takes an active role in overseeing cybersecurity risk, including receiving an annual report from the CISO that provides an overview of the status and effectiveness of our cybersecurity risk management program and participating in cybersecurity incident response tabletop exercises.
See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A for further information. Also see "Risk Factors" included in Item 1A for additional information regarding cybersecurity risk.

Title: ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
  As of December 31, 2023, we owned office space comprised of five campuses located in Chattanooga, Tennessee; Portland, Maine; Columbia, South Carolina; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Dorking in the United Kingdom. In addition, as of December 31, 2023, we leased office space in various locations throughout the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Poland. Substantially all of the properties owned or leased are used by one or more of our five reporting segments, depending on the location. We believe our properties and facilities are suitable and adequate for current operations.

Title: ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  Refer to Note 16 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for information on legal proceedings.

Title: ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
  Not Applicable 36